  an experimental study of a wing in a propeller slipstream wasmade in order to determine the spanwise distribution of the liftincrease due to slipstream at different angles of attack of the wingand at different free stream to slipstream velocity ratios .  theresults were intended in part as an evaluation basis for differenttheoretical treatments of this problem .  the comparative span loading curves, together with supportingevidence, showed that a substantial part of the lift incrementproduced by the slipstream was due to a /destalling/ or boundary-layer-controleffect .  the integrated remaining lift increment,after subtracting this destalling lift, was found to agreewell with a potential flow theory .  an empirical evaluation of the destalling effects was made forthe specific configuration of the experiment .
in the study of high-speed viscous flow past a two-dimensional body itis usually necessary to consider a curved shock wave emitting from thenose or leading edge of the body .  consequently, there exists an inviscidrotational flow region between the shock wave and the boundary layer.  such a situation arises, for instance, in the study of the hypersonicviscous flow past a flat plate .  the situation is somewhat differentfrom prandtl's classical boundary-layer problem . in prandtl'soriginal problem the inviscid free stream outside the boundary layer isirrotational while in a hypersonic boundary-layer problem the inviscidfree stream must be considered as rotational .  the possible effects ofvorticity have been recently discussed by ferri and libby .  in the presentpaper, the simple shear flow past a flat plate in a fluid of smallviscosity is investigated .  it can be shown that this problem can againbe treated by the boundary-layer approximation, the only novel featurebeing that the free stream has a constant vorticity .  the discussionhere is restricted to two-dimensional incompressible steady flow .
the boundary-layer equations are presented for steadyincompressible flow with no pressure gradient .
  the two-dimensional steady boundary-layerproblem for a flat plate in ashear flow of incompressible fluid is considered .solutions for the boundarylayerthickness, skin friction, and the velocitydistribution in the boundarylayer are obtained by the karman-pohlhausentechnique .  comparison withthe boundary layer of a uniform flow has alsobeen made to show the effect ofvorticity .
  analytic solutions are presented for the transient heat conductionin composite slabs exposed at one surface to atriangular heat rate .  this type of heating rate may occur, forexample, during aerodynamic heating .
  in a recent contribution to the readers'forum wassermann gave analyticsolutions for the temperature in a doublelayer slab, with a triangular heatrate input at one face, insulated at the other,and with no thermal resistanceat the interface .  his solutions were for thethree particular cases..i propose here to give the general solutionto this problem, to indicatebriefly how it is obtained using the method ofreference 2, and to point outthat the solutions given by wassermann areincomplete for times longerthan the duration of the heat input .
  experiments were performed in the 12-in. supersonic windtunnel of the jet propulsion laboratory of the california instituteof technology to investigate the effect of three-dimensionalroughness elements (spheres) on boundary-layer transition on atained at local mach numbers of 1.90, 2.71, and 3.67 by varyingtrip size, position, spacing, and reynolds number per inch .the results indicate that (1) transition from laminar to turbulentflow induced by three-dimensional roughness elements beginswhen the double row of spiral vortices trailing each element contaminatesand breaks down the surrounding field of vorticity, (2)transition appears rather suddenly, becoming more violent withincreasing roughness height relative to the boundary-layer thickness,(3) after the breakdown of the vorticity field, the strengthof the spiral vortices may still persist in the sublayer of the ensuingturbulent flow, (4) lateral spacing of roughness elements haslittle effect upon the initial breakdown (contamination) of thelaminar flow, and (5) the trip reynolds number where uand v are the velocity and kinematic viscosity at the outer edge ofthe boundary layer and k is roughness height, such that transitionoccurs at the roughness position, varies as the position reynoldsnumber to the one-fourth power, viz., where x istrip position .
in his study of the effect of roughness on transition, h. l.dryden found, on the basis of available data, that the effectof a two-dimensional roughness element such as a /trip wire/could be represented reasonably well in terms of a functional relationbetween and, where is the reynolds numberof transition based on distance from the leading edge, is theheight of the roughness element, and is the boundary-layerdisplacement thickness at the position of the element .  at hissuggestion some additional data were obtained, primarily toextend the range to higher values of, during the course of aninvestigation of transition on a flat plate conducted at thenational bureau of standards .  after the results on the twodimensionalroughness elements were obtained, it appeared to bedesirable to see whether a row of three-dimensional roughnesselements would behave in the same way .
  an investigation of transition and skin friction on an insulatedflat plate, 5 by 26 in., was made in the galcit 5 by 5 in.hypersonic wind tunnel at a nominal mach number of 5.8 .  the phosphorescent lacquer technique was used for transitiondetection and was found to be in good agreement with total-headrake measurements along the plate surface and pitot boundarylayersurveys .  it was found that the boundary layer waslaminar at reynolds numbers of at least 5 x 10 .  transversecontamination caused by the turbulent boundary layer on thetunnel sidewall originated far downstream of the flat plate leadingedge at reynolds numbers of 1.5 to 2 x 10, and spread at auniform angle of 5 compared to 9 degree in low-speed flow .  the effect of two-dimensional and local disturbances was investigated.  the technique of air injection into the boundarylayer as a means of hastening transition was extensively used .although the onset of transition occurred at reynolds numbersas low as 10, a fully developed turbulent boundary layer wasnot obtained at reynolds numbers much below 2 x 10 regardlessof the amount of air injected .  a qualitative discussion of these results is given with emphasison the possibility of a greater stability of the laminar boundarylayer in hypersonic flow than at lower speeds .  direct skin-friction measurements were made by means of thefloating element technique, over a range of reynolds numbersverified as being laminar over the complete range .  with airinjection, turbulent shear was obtained only for reynolds numbersgreater than 2 x 10, this value being in good agreement withearlier results of this investigation .  the turbulent skin-frictioncoefficient was found to be approximately 0.40 of that for incompressibleflow for a constant value of r, and 0.46 for an effectivereynolds number between 5 and 6 x 10 .
  a theoretical analysis has been made for an impact tube of therelation between free-stream mach number and the impact andfree-stream pressures and densities for extremely low pressures .it is shown that the results differ appreciably from the correspondingcontinuum relations .
there are in supersonic aerodynamics many situations ofpractical interest wherein streams of different velocities and,in general, different stagnation pressures mix with one another .in the majority of these problems the interaction between thetwo streams takes place in the presence of an axial pressure gradient.  its effect on the characteristics of the mixing may influencesignificantly the performances of the devices whereinthe phenomena cited above occur .  a theoretical and experimentalprogram of research to study mixing in the presence ofaxial pressure gradients is being carried on at the polytechnicinstitute of brooklyn .
  the dominating factors in structural design of high-speedaircraft are thermal and aeroelastic in origin .  the subjectmatter is concerned largely with a discussion of these factors andtheir interrelation with one another .  a summary is presentedof some of the analytical and experimental tools available toaeronautical engineers to meet the demands of high-speed flightupon aircraft structures .  the state of the art with respect toheat transfer from the boundary layer into the structure, modesof failure under combined load as well as thermal inputs andacrothermoelasticity is discussed .  methods of attacking andalleviating structural and aeroelastic problems of high-speedflight are summarized .  finally, some avenues of fundamentalresearch are suggested .
  it will be shown that the differential equations for a heatedplate with large temperature gradient and for a similar plate atconstant temperature can be made the same by a proper modificationof the thickness and the loading for the isothermal plate .this fact leads to the result that the stresses in the heated platecan be calculated from measured strains on the unheated plate bya series of relations, called the /similarity laws ./  the applicationof this analog theory to solid wings under aerodynamic heatingis discussed in detail .  the loading on the unheated analogwing is, however, complicated and involves the novel conceptof feedback and /body force/ loading .  the problem of stressinga heated box-wing structure can be solved by the same analogmethod and is briefly discussed .
  representative applications are described which illustrate theextent to which simplifications in the solutions of high-speed unsteadyaeroelastic problems can be achieved through the use ofcertain aerodynamic techniques known collectively as /pistontheory ./  based on a physical model originally proposed byhayes and lighthill, piston theory for airfoils and finite wingshas been systematically developed by landahl, utilizing expansionsin powers of the thickness ratio and the inverse of theflight mach number m .  when contributions of orders andare negligible, the theory predicts a point-function relationshipbetween the local pressure on the surface of a wing and thenormal component of fluid velocity produced by the wing'smotion .  the computation of generalized forces in aeroelasticequations, such as the flutter determinant, is then always reducedto elementary integrations of the assumed modes of motion .  essentially closed-form solutions are given for the bendingtorsionand control-surface flutter properties of typical section airfoilsat high mach numbers .  these agree well with results ofmore exact theories wherever comparisons can be fairly made .moreover, they demonstrate the increasingly important influenceof thickness and profile shape as m grows larger, a discovery thatwould be almost impossible using other available aerodynamictools .  the complexity of more practical flutter analyses-e.g., onthree-dimensional wings and panels-is shown to be substantiallyreduced by piston theory .  an iterative procedure is outlined, bywhich improved flutter eigenvalues can be found through thesuccessive introduction of higher-order terms in and  .  other applications to unsteady supersonic problems are reviewed,including gust response and rapid maneuvers of elasticaircraft .  steady-state aeroelastic calculations are also discussed,but for them piston theory amounts only to a slight modificationof ackeret's formulas .  suggestions are made regarding future research based on thenew aerodynamic method, with particular emphasis on areas wherecomputational labor can be reduced with a minimum loss of precision.  it is pointed out that a mach number zone exists wherethermal effects are appreciable but nonlinear viscous interactionsmay be neglected, and that in this zone piston theory is the logicalway of estimating air loads when analyzing aerodynamic-thermoelasticinteraction problems .
  theory and experiments of the flutter of a buckled plate arediscussed .  it is shown that an increase in the initial deviationfrom flatness or a static pressure differential across the plateraises the critical value of the /reduced velocity ./  the applicability of the galerkin method to the linearizedproblem of flutter of an unbuckled plate has been questioned byseveral authors .  in this paper the flutter condition was formulatedin the form of an integral equation and solved numericallyby the method of iteration and the method of matrix approximations,thus avoiding the constraint of assumed modes .  for aplate (with finite bending rigidity) the results confirm thosegiven by the galerkin method .  an approximate analysis of the limiting form and amplitude ofthe flutter motion for a buckled plate is presented .
  the transformation of the compressible turbulent boundarylayerequations to their incompressible equivalent is demonstratedanalytically .  the transformation is essentially the sameas that for the laminar layer, first given by stewartson, exceptthat the explicit relation between the viscosity and temperatureis not required .  a key point in the analysis is the modificationof the stream function to include a mean of the fluctuating componentsand the postulate that the apparent turbulent shear,associated with an elemental mass, remains invariant in thetransformation .  the values of the incompressible friction coefficients and ofpressure rise causing separation thus transformed show goodagreement with the experimentally measured and independentlyreported results .  an application of the transformation to theself-preserving boundary layers and to the computations ofgeneral boundary-layer flow is shown .
in connection with a study of the wakes behind bodies in hypersonic flowcarried out for the missile and space vehicle division of the generalelectric company, it was desired to estimate the eddy viscosity inaxisymmetric, compressible wakes .  because of the lack of applicableexperimental data, it was found necessary to make such an estimate byrationally extending the few available data for incompressible flows tothe compressible case .  this suggested the application and extension ofthe transformations applied to turbulent boundary layers in referenceinfinitesimal mass are invariant with transformation, mager showed thatthe partial differential equations for the compressible turbulent boundarylayer can be transformed to incompressible form .  the validity ofthis assumption and of the transformations was established for severalboundary-layer flows by comparison with experiment .
this note discusses the two-dimensional diffuser flow fieldin a radial compressor outside the impeller wheel .  it isassumed that the diffuser has guide vanes arranged in a circularrow at a radius .  the impeller wheel has the radius (seefig. 1) .  the flow in the diffuser starts at the circle with theradius .  the velocity components, and in the r anddirections of the velocity vector on this circle are prescribedtogether with the thermal state of the gas .  the flow so prescribedon the radius will, if no disturbances are present (i.e., noboundary conditions in the flow other than zero velocity at infinityare to be fulfilled), develop in a spiral flow .
a large amount of work on conical flow fields without axial symmetryat supersonic speed is presently available .  however, no apparenthypersonic approximation has yet been derived .  in this note, experimentaldata on two elliptical cones at m = 6 are presented and a hypersonicapproach obtained from physical considerations is suggested .
  author generalizes lees's (amr 10(1957), rev. 2601) modificationof newtonian theory for blunt-nose bodies to apply to pointednosebodies as well .  the result is expressed bysin where is the local inclination of the body surfaceand the subscript /max/ refers to the maximum local inclinationand pressure coefficient .  for blunt-nose bodiesand the generalized theory reverts to lees's blunt-nose modificationwith given by normal shock relations .  author shows,by comparison of newtonian and generalized-newtonian theorywith exact solutions, the superiority of generalized-newtoniantheory .  he also shows that both two-dimensional and axisymmetricshapes are correlated by this generalization .  results arepresented in two figures that support author's generalization andindicate the independence of the correlation from variations inboth the hypersonic similarity parameter k = m(d1) and the ratioof specific heats y .  reviewer believes this generalization should be of interest tothose engaged in development of hypersonic hardware as well astheory .
a number of authors have considered the effect of slip on the heat transferand skin friction in a laminar boundary layer over a flat plate .reference 1 considers this by a perturbation on the usual laminarboundary-layer analysis while some other studies.dash e.g., referencethe impulsive motion of an infinite plate .
  assuming that continuum flow energy equation in a boundarylayer remains valid well into slip region and taking account of thetemperature jump in a moving rarefied gas and for influence oflarge mean free path through appropriate boundary conditions, asolution is found for the temperature gradient in the slip region .then from maslen expression (j. aero. sci. 25, 6, 400-401, juneslipping fluid to a flat plate, and behavior confirms results forsmall values of knudsen number .
  a solution is given for the case of the laminar boundary layerof an incompressible fluid of constant properties on the exteriorof a cylinder with flow parallel to the cylinder axis .  this casediffers from the blasius solution for flow along a flat plate byconsidering the effect of the curvature in a plane transverse tothe flow direction .  the local skin-friction and heat-transfercoefficients for a prandtl number of 0.715 are evaluated andcompared to the similar magnitudes for flat plate flow, and theeffect of the curvature is shown to be significant in some practicalcases .  recovery factors are evaluated, and this quantity isfound to be insensitive to the effect of curvature of the boundary .
  the boundary-layer equations are developed in general for thecase of very high speed flight where the external flow is in a dissociatedstate .  in particular the effects of diffusion and of atomrecombination in the boundary layer are included .  it is shownthat at the stagnation point the equations can be reduced exactlyto a set of nonlinear ordinary differential equations even when thechemical reactions proceed so slowly that the boundary layer isnot in thermochemical equilibrium .  two methods of numerical solution of these stagnation pointequations are presented, one for the equilibrium case and theother for the nonequilibrium case .  numerical results are correlatedin terms of the parameters entering the numerical formulationso as not to depend critically on the physical assumptionsmade .  for the nonequilibrium boundary layer, both catalytic (toatom recombination) and noncatalytic wall surfaces are considered.  a solution is represented which shows the transitionfrom the /frozen/ boundary layer (very slow recombinationrates) to the equilibrium boundary layer (fast recombination rates) .a recombination rate parameter is introduced to interpret thenonequilibrium results, and it is shown that a scale factor is involvedin relating the equilibrium state of a boundary layer onbodies of different sizes .  it is concluded that the heat transfer through the equilibriumstagnation point boundary layer can be computed accurately bya simple correlation formula and that the heattransfer is almost unaffected by a nonequilibrium state of theboundary layer provided the wall is catalytic and the lewisnumber near unity .
  at hypersonic speeds the drag area of a blunt nose is muchlarger than the drag area of a slender afterbody, and the energycontained in the flow field in a plane at right angles to the flightdirection is nearly constant over a downstream distance manytimes greater than the characteristic nose dimension .  thetransverse flow field exhibits certain similarity properties directlyanalogous to the flow similarity behind an intense blast wavefound by g. i. taylor, s. c. lin, and a. sakurai .  a comparisonwith the experiments of hammitt, vas, and bogdonoff on aflat plate with a blunt leading edge at in helium showsthat the shock-wave shape is predicted very accurately by thissimilarity analysis .  the predicted surface pressure distributionis somewhat less satisfactory .  experimental results on a hemisphere-cylinderobtained at in the galcit air tunnelindicate that not only the shock-wave shape but also the surfacepressures for this body are given very closely by the similaritytheory, except near the hemisphere-cylinder junction .  energy considerations combined with a detailed study of theequations of motion show that flow similarity is also possible fora class of bodies of the form, provided that,where for a two-dimensional body and for abody of revolution .  when the shock shape is notsimilar to the body shape, and the entire flow field some distancefrom the nose must depend to some extent on the detailsof the nose geometry .  by again utilizing energy and drag considerations one findsthat at hypersonic speeds the inviscid surface pressures generatedby a blunt leading edge are larger than the pressures inducedby boundary-layer growth on an insulated flat surfacefor an insulated blunt-nosed slender body of revolution thecorresponding distance is given by .  (hereis free-stream reynolds number based on leading-edgethickness, or nose diameter .)  in free flight these constants arereplaced by 1,700 and 20, respectively, so that viscous interactioneffects are important over the forward portion of a bluntnosedslender body only for relatively low values of .  however,/far downstream/ of the nose the inviscid over-pressure issmall and viscous interaction phenomena will have to be takeninto account .
current interest in the problem of inviscid-viscous interactionhas led to the realization of the significant effect ofthe leading-edge thickness in hypersonic flow .  the purposeof this note is to give an account of the downstream influenceof the blunt leading edge on the basis of the hypersonic smallperturbation theory .
  as an aid to the aerodynamieist in the design of air frames forhypersonic speeds (speeds faster than about mach 5), newtonianflow theory is examined from the point of view of gas dynamicsand hypersonic small-disturbance theory .  the usual theory isshown to result as the first approximation of an expansion validfor small .  a basic similarity parameteris introduced .  a general solutionof the first approximation for the flow past slender bodies (bodieswhich cause only a small disturbance to the stream) at zero angleof attack is given .  an important condition which limits theapplication of the theory is noted-namely, that the pressurecoefficient on the surface not fall to zero .  the theory is then appliedto cones and to bodies whose shape is .
an exact analytical solution of the equations of inviscid compressibleunsteady flow has been given by sedov (referenceto the solution may be made through hayes and probstein) .this solution is the similarity solution for a constant-energy pointexplosion .  in view of the recent work on problems of hypersonicflow in the limiting form of the ratio of specific heats near 1solution in this limit and inquire what form such a solution wouldtake .  einbinder, in a recent note, has examined the solution forvarious but does not mention the interesting case of .it may be shown that the convergence to the limit is nonuniformover the flow field .  it is also not difficult to show that the nonuniformbehavior exhibited here is that which one would expectfrom the newtonian formulation as derived in reference 3 .
  the present work is concerned with the determination of transienttemperatures and thermal stresses in simple models intendedto simulate parts or the whole of an aircraft structure of the builtupvariety subjected to aerodynamic heating .  the first case considered is that of convective heat transferinto one side of a flat plate, representing a thick skin, and theeffect of the resulting temperature distribution in inducing thermalstresses associated with bending restraint at the plate edges .numerical results are presented for the transient temperature differentialsin the plate when the environment temperature firstincreases linearly with time and then remains constant, theperiod of linear increase representing the time of acceleration ofthe aircraft .  corresponding thermal stress information is presented.  the second case is that of the wide-flanged i-beam with convectiveheat transfer into the outer faces of the flanges .  numericalresults are presented for transient temperature differentials for awide range of values of the applicable parameters and for an environmenttemperature variation as described above .  correspondingthermal stresses in a beam of infinite length are determined.  a theoretical analysis of the stress distribution in a beamof finite length is carried out and numerical results obtained forone case .  an experimental investigation of temperatures andstresses in such a beam is described, and results are presentedwhich indicate good agreement with corresponding theoreticalresults .
  photothermoelastic experiments were performed on a long multiwebwing model for which a theoretical analysis is available inthe literature .  the experimental procedures utilized to simulatethe conditions prescribed in the theory are fully described .  correlation of theory and experiment in terms of dimensionlesstemperature, stress, time, and biot number revealed that thetheory predicted values higher than the experimentally observedmaximum thermal stresses at the center of the web .  detailedtemperature measurements in the flange suggested that the majorsource of this discrepancy can be traced to the one-dimensionalheat conduction analysis of the flange employed in the theory .
  the temperature and thermal stress distributions are analyzedin multicellular supersonic wing structures .  a buckling criterionis established for the panels of cover plates subjected to thermalstresses .
  a method is presented for computing rapidly, yet accurately,the dynamic motion of a ballistic-type missile descending throughthe atmosphere .  the equations of motion are separated into aset of /static/ trajectory equations (zero angle of attack) and aset of /rotational/ equations describing the oscillatory motionof the missile about its center of gravity .  a transformationallows the rotational equations to be written in a manner analogousto the equation for an undamped oscillating spring masssystem with the mass equal to unity and a time variable springconstant .  for given initial conditions this equation can besolved to obtain the envelope of maximum angle of attack .  anadditional transformation allows the calculation of the completeoscillatory motion at any time during the trajectory as a functionof the maximum angle of attack at that time .  this solution shows that the maximum angle of attack of amissile descending through the atmosphere at relatively constantspeed is reduced even when the aerodynamic damping is neglected .
  the equations describing the flow of an electrically conductingfluid in the presence of electric and magnetic fields are writtendown with the aid of certain simplifications appropriate toaeronautical applications .  in order to estimate the probablesignificance of magneto-aerodynamic effects, some data onconductivity of pure and /seeded/ air are first examined .  dimensionlessquantities representing the ratios of forces and ofcurrents are then formed and their values studied for conditionsof flight in the atmosphere .  some examples of magneto-hydrodynamic and magnetogasdynamiceffects in simple flows are given .  these includetwo cases of poiscuille flow of conducting liquids with appliedmagnetic fields and the case of quasi-one-dimensional gas flowwith applied electrical and magnetic fields .  in the last case,attractive possibilities are found for controlled acceleration ordeceleration of gas at subsonic and supersonic speeds, even inconstant-area channels .  the behavior of the flow is characteristicallydifferent in different regimes of mach number and flowspeed relative to certain /significant speeds/ that are dependenton the ratio of electrical to magnetic field strengths .  theseare studied, and a chart is constructed to relate the length tothe speed ratio of a maximum-acceleration constant-area channel .  it is concluded that the advantages that may accrue frommagneto-aerodynamic methods are sufficiently attractive tojustify the considerable research and engineering developmentthat will be required .  among the unsolved engineering problemsare the reduction of surface resistance of electrodes in contactwith a conducting gas, development of techniques for seeding,and provision of the required magnetic fields in flight .
in the course of investigating boundary-layer flow in continuousplasma accelerators with crossed electric and magneticfields, it was found advantageous to have at hand simpleclosed-form solutions for the magneto-gasdynamic flow in theduct which could serve as free-stream conditions for the boundarylayers .  nontrivial solutions of this sort are not available atpresent, and in fact, as in the work of resler and sears, thevariation of conditions along the flow axis must be obtainedthrough numerical integration .  consequently, some simple solutions of magneto-gasdynamicchannel flow were sought, possessing sufficient algebraic simplicityto serve as free-stream boundary conditions for analytic investigationsof the boundary layer in a physically reasonable accelerator .in particular, since the cooling of the accelerator tube is likely tobe an important physical problem because of the high gas temperaturesrequired to provide sufficient gaseous conductivity,channel flow with constant temperature appears interesting .some simple algebraic solutions for the case of a constant temperatureplasma are developed in the following paragraphs .
  the purpose of this paper is to present a method of calculationdevised to yield all the important information on the symmetricinviscid hypersonic flow in the stagnation point region of a bluntbody .  the problem is the same as that considered by hayeswho used a slightly different approach .  it is demonstrated thathayes' results are valid in the stagnation point region and canhence be considered a basis for constructing less restricted solutions.  equations are presented giving velocity, pressure, detachmentdistance, and vorticity .  the values of shock detachment distanceand body pressure coefficient are compared with experimentaldata for spheres .  the pressure comparison shows thatthe results of hayes and the theory presented herein represent abetter approximation than the newtonian impact theory forhypersonic mach numbers .  in conclusion, the possibility of refinements to this analysis isdiscussed .
the newtonian theory of impact has been shown to beuseful for pressure calculations on the forward facing partof bodies moving at high speed .  it is now a familiar practiceto use this information to calculate nonviscous velocities at thewall and then to estimate rates of heat transfer .  this procedureis perhaps open to question,. heat-transfer rates dependon velocity gradients which are not given by the newtoniananalysis .  nor can one obtain information on boundary-layerstability or all the body stability derivatives .  it seems, therefore,inevitable that, as design proceeds with these hypersonicmissiles, there will be a greater need for more accurate aerodynamictheories either to predict what will happen in unfamiliarflight conditions or to effect an extrapolation from a known testresult to the design condition .
on the forebody of many practically interesting hypersonicvehicles, there is little interaction between the inviscidflow field and the boundary layer .  therefore, inviscid flow theorycan be used to determine, independent of surface phenomena,the physically interesting quantities such as shock shape, shockdetachment distance, sonic line shape, and pressure distribution .furthermore, the pressure distribution so determined can then beused for the study of heat transfer, materials behavior, and othersurface phenomena .  thus, for these bodies, the prandtl boundary-layerconcept can be utilized for the calculation of both theinviscid flow and the boundary-layer behavior .  it is the purpose of this note to point out that this concept canalso be applied experimentally in order to provide, in conjunctionwith a conventional hypersonic wind-tunnel air supply, ameans for investigating hypersonic heat transfer and surfacephenomena under conditions of flight reynolds numbers .
  high-speed wind-tunnel results are analyzed to derive a semiempiricalscheme for the prediction of transonic pressure distributions.  the supersonic and subsonic parts of the flow aretreated separately, and then linked by an empirical shock pressurerise relation .  the significance of the empirical results isconsidered in relation to the physical mechanism of transonicflows .  it is also shown that theoretical solutions can be improvedby introducing the empirical shock relation .
  this study of the flow about an airfoil in a near-sonic streamindicates the important factors determining the pressure distributionon the airfoil .  analysis of the mach wave patternsuggests that the supersonic domain of the flow can be derivedfrom two simple-wave flows, one arising from the mach wavesreflected at the sonic line and the other from the changes in airfoilsurface slope .  the compressive effect of the reflected machwaves is determined quantitatively as a function of airfoil leading-edgegeometry from an analysis of measured pressure distributionsfor uncambered airfoils,. and it is shown how this canbe superimposed on the wave system from the curved surface togive an equivalent simple-wave flow over the airfoil .  an application of this scheme to the calculation of the pressuredistribution over an airfoil in a sonic stream gives results in goodagreement with experiment .
  tests were conducted in the 12-in. continuous supersonic windtunnel of the jet propulsion laboratory, california institute oftechnology, to determine the effects of surface cooling onboundary-layer transition at supersonic speeds .  the effects ofcooling were investigated at test section mach numbers of 1.97,smooth cone in the presence of three levels of supply-stream turbulence(0.4, 2, and 9 per cent) and several single-element roughnessesat fixed axial location .  transition data were obtainedoptically by means of a magnified-schlieren system .  the results,for the range of mach number investigated, indicate that (1)transition on a smooth cone can definitely be delayed by surfacecooling, (2) transition promoted by either supply-stream turbulenceor surface roughness can also be delayed by surface coolingdepending upon degree of turbulence or relative roughness respectively,and (3) the adverse effects of increased turbulence androughness decrease with increasing mach number .
  studies of transition over a flat plate at mach number 1.76were carried out using a hot-wire anemometer as one of theprincipal tools .  the nature and measurements of free-streamdisturbances at supersonic speeds are analyzed .  the experimentalresults are interpreted in the light of present overall informationon transition at supersonic speeds and conclusions asto further fruitful experiments are drawn .
  in many wing vibration analyses it is found necessary to takeinto account the effect of flexibly mounted engines .  hence,it is reasonable to ask what vibratory gyroscopic effect this flexibilitymay give rise to when propellers are whirling .  an enginemount may be thought of as a horizontal beam cantileveredfrom the wing, having both horizontal and vertical flexibility .if this beam were infinitely rigid horizontally, then, when itvibrated, the gyroscopic moments induced in the propeller dueto the resultant pitching motion of its axis would not producepropeller axis yaw .  however, engine-mount lateral stiffnesstical stiffness, so that gyroscopic effects will play a role as thepropeller axis undergoes pitching vibrations at the tip of thecantilever engine mount .  the purpose of this paper is to investigatethis role under the assumption that the propeller itselfis a rigid disc .  the paper is divided into four parts .  part (1) deals brieflywith classical gyroscope theory .  part (2) presents engine vibrationmode studies-experimental photographic techniques on amodel gyroscope mounted at the ends of two different cantileverbeams .  part (3) presents the theory of the coupled motion ofan elastic wing upon which a gyroscope is mounted to simulatean engine-propeller system on an airplane .  part (4) consistsof an example of the theory of part (3), in which, by takingwhat are thought to be reasonable parameters, results are obtainedshowing how the whirling of a rigid propeller may materiallyaffect wing normal mode shapes and frequencies .
the experimentally demonstrated rise and subsequentfall of transition reynolds number with decreasing wall-toambienttemperature ratio has been the subject of two recentnotes .  in both cases it was argued that the increased effectivenessof roughness due to wall cooling was not sufficient to explainthe transition-reversal phenomenon on nominally smoothbodies .  in one case, the criterion for transition reversal wastaken to be and in the other values of as low aseter is a reynolds number formed from velocity and kinematicviscosity based on calculated conditions at the height ofroughness element k in the undisturbed, laminar boundary layerat the station of roughness location .  the present note is submittedto show that another method for evaluating the effectof roughness on transition leads to an opposite conclusion .
there is, at present, considerable interest in the characteristiesof blunted bodies from both an aerodynamic and aheat-transfer standpoint .  the use of blunt shapes is contemplatedto reduce the heat-transfer problem at body noses, butthere are also applications for blunt noses which occur frommainly aerodynamic considerations .  an actual reduction indrag may be the beneficial result of blunting the nose of a coneor a similar slender shape under certain conditions .  althoughthe sphere has received considerable treatment, the nose shapesare not necessarily tangent spheres .  in the case, let us say, of atotal head tube situated in the nose of a given body, the bluntingmay be quite flat, and nose sections blunter than spherical shapemay conceivably be desirable, in some cases, from the heattransferstandpoint .  the purpose of the present investigation is to examine theaerodynamic effect of a simple type of nose blunting on a basicbody .the incompressible flow of an electrically conducting fluidpast a porous plate y = 0 with constant suction velocity inthe presence of a transverse uniform strength has recentlybeen investigated by gupta .  in this note, the problem is generalizedto take into account the effect of free convection, when abody force g per unit mass is acting in the negative x-directionparallel to the wall .  the fluid is assumed to be semi-incompressibleas usual .  in addition to the obvious practical significance,this problem is also interesting in the sense that it providesanother exact solution of the magnetohydrodynamicequations, since the only electromagnetic assumptions involvedare constant properties and freedom from excessive charges .
  the first portion of this paper describes studies of the internalstructure of the separated flow in a notch at a free-stream machnumber of 3 .  observations include..  flow visualization, sparkschlierenpictures of the fluctuations of the free shear layer, andstudies of the diffusion of heat from sources placed in the separatedregion .  the second part describes measurements of localheat transfer to the wall .  the external mach number, the length-to-depth ratio of thecavity, the ratio of the oncoming boundary layer thickness to thenotch depth (in the turbulent flow region), the thermal-tomomentumthickness ratio of the boundary layer and, finally,the geometry of the internal boundary of the separated regionare varied as systematically as possible .  on the basis of theseobservations, a simple model of the flow in and the heat transferacross the separated region is formulated .
the subject of matric structural analysis has been treated in two recentlypublished papers in the journal .  the authors of these papershave made a number of statements about the inversion of certain largematrices .  it is the purpose of this note to bring to the attention ofthe reader certain facts that shed new light on this important problem .it is shown here that the situation is not as hopeless as the abovementionedauthors intimate .
  two methods are presented for the analysis of complex lowaspect-ratioaircraft structures .  both methods provide forarbitrary external loading, are general with respect to the orientationof structural members, and permit arbitrary boundaryconditions .  for purposes of analysis a structure is idealized as anetwork of flexural members with interconnected torsion boxes .  in the first method, sets of linear equations are obtained byexpressing boundary conditions, member deflection equations,equilibrium requirements, and slope-compatibility relationshipsin terms of deflections and internal forces .  the solution fordeflections and internal forces is then formed as the product of aninverse structural matrix and a column matrix of load functions .  in the second method, the conditions at a given boundary areassembled as a column matrix and are transferred in a step-bystepfashion over the entire structure to an opposite boundary .the transfer is accomplished by successive multiplications ofsquare matrices composed independently for the different transferranges .  the final operation is the inversion of a relativelysmall matrix and provides the solution for the unknown boundaryconditions .  comparisons of theoretical results with experimental data andelectric-analog solutions are favorable .
  formulas for the inviscid flow properties on the surface of acone at angle of attack are derived for use in conjunction withthe m.i.t. cone tables .  these formulas are based upon anentropy distribution on the cone surface which is uniform andequal to that of the shocked fluid in the windward meridianplane .  they predict values for the flow variables which maydiffer significantly from the corresponding values obtaineddirectly from the cone tables .  the differences in the magnitudesof the flow variables computed by the two methods tend toincrease with increasing free-stream mach number, cone angleand angle of attack .
  an analysis is presented which enables the temperature profiles,veiocity profiles, heat transfer, and skin friction to be calculatedfor laminar flow over a two-dimensional or axially symmetricsurface without pressure gradient but with an arbitrary analyticdistribution of surface temperature .  the general theory isapplicable to a gas of any prandtl number, although the numericalresults given herein have been computed for air .the predictions of the theory for the special case of constant surfacetemperature are compared with the calculations of crocco .on the basis of this comparison, it is inferred that the presenttheory enables heat-transfer and skin-friction calculations accurateto within about 5 per cent to be made for flight conditionsup to mach numbers near 5 and to within about 1 or 2 per centfor supersonic wind-tunnel conditions up to considerably highermach numbers .  a particular effort has been made to present the results, whichare simple considering their generality, in a form that can be usedreadily in practical applications .  from the mathematical pointof view, the theory is applicable to an arbitrary analytic distributionof surface temperature, but in any given practical case it isnecessary that the surface-temperature distribution be approximatedby a polynomial .  the only unknowns in the final equationsdeveloped are the coefficients of this polynomial, so that thework involved in applying the theory in any given case dependsentirely on the work involved in approximating a given surfacetemperaturedistribution by a polynomial .  an example is worked out in detail which illustrates some of theprincipal effects of variable surface temperature .  it is shownthat both positively infinite and negatively infinite heat-transfercoefficients can occur .  the anomaly of infinite and negativeheat-transfer coefficients is discussed and attributed to the customarydefinition of the heat-transfer coefficient, which is shownto be fundamentally inappropriate for flows with variable surfacetemperature .  in the particular example considered, a conventionalmethod for calculating the net heat transferred yields completelyincorrect results .  a brief qualitative discussion of thepossible effects of the heat transfer on flow separation is given .in order to facilitate the use of the results, all of the principalequations developed are collected and summarized in the sectionentitled /practical use of results ./
  in the present investigation of the flow of air in a thin laminarboundary layer on a flat plate, the crocco method has been used to solvethe simultaneous differential equations of momentum and energy involvedin such flow .  the crocco method was used because it gave accurateresults for arbitrary prandtl number near unity .  the prandtl numberwas taken at 0.75, the specific heat was held constant, and thesutherland law of viscosity-temperature variation was assumed torepresent the viscosity data starting with an initial ambienttemperature of -67.6 f .  the main results presented here are the skinfrictionand heat-transfer coefficients as functions of reynolds number,mach number, and wall-to-free-stream temperature ratio .  variations ofshear, velocity, temperature, and mach number across the boundary layerare included .  the crocco method is discussed in detail .
  the problem of investigating the simultaneous effects of transientaerodynamic heating and external loads on aircraft structures for thepurpose of determining the ability of the structure to withstand flightto supersonic speeds is studied .  by dimensional analyses it is shownthat ..constructed of the same materials as the aircraft will be thermally similarto the aircraft with respect tothe flow of heat through the structurewill be similar to those of the aircraft when the structural model isconstructed at the same temperature as the aircraft .external loads will be similar to those of the aircraft .subjected to heating and cooling that correctly simulate the aerodynamicheating of the aircraft, except with respect to angular velocities andangular accelerations, without requiring determination of the heat fluxat each point on the surface and its variation with time .acting on the aerodynamically heated structural model to those actingon the aircraft is determined for the case of zero angular velocity andzero angular acceleration, so that the structural model may be subjectedto the external loads required for simultaneous simulation of stressesand deformations due to external loads .
  a method which may be used at high supersonic mach numbers isdescribed for calculating the flutter speed of wings having camber intheir deflection modes .  the normal coupled vibration modes of the wingare used to derive the equations of motion .  chord deflections of thevibration modes are approximated by polynomials .  the wing may have acontrol surface and may carry external stores although no aerodynamicforces on the stores are presented .  the aerodynamic forces that areassumed to be acting on the wing are obtained from piston theory andalso from a quasi-steady form of a theory for two-dimensional steadyflow .  airfoil shape and thickness effects are taken account of in theanalysis .  the method is used to calculate the flutter speed of some wingswhich had been previously tested at mach numbers of 1.3 to 3.0 .  comparisonof the calculations and experiment is made for flat-plate 60and 45 delta wings and also for an untapered 45 sweptback wing .
  experimental research has been conducted on the effects of wallcooling, mach number, and unit reynoldsnumber on the transition reynoldsnumber of cylindrical separated boundarylayers on an ogive-cylinder model .results were obtained from pressure and temperature measurements andshadowgraph observations .  the maximumscope of measurements encompassedmach numbers between 2.06 and 4.24, reynolds numbers (based on length ofseparation) between 60,000 and 400,000,and ratios of wall temperature toadiabatic wall temperature between 0.35 and 1.0 .within the range of thepresent tests, the transition reynolds number was observed to decreasewith increasing wall cooling, increase with increasing mach number, andincrease with increasing unit reynolds number .  the wall-cooling effectwas found to be four times as great when the attached boundary layerupstream of separation was cooled in conjunction with cooling of theseparated boundary layer as when only the separated boundary layer wascooled .  wall cooling of both theattached and separated flow regions alsocaused, in some cases, reattachment in the otherwise separated region .cavity resonance present in the separated region for some model configurationswas accompanied by a large decrease in transition reynoldsnumber at the lower test mach numbers .
  the karman-pohlhausen method is extended primarily to sixth-degreevelocity profiles for determiningthe characteristics of the compressiblelaminar boundary layer over an adiabaticwall in the presence of an axialpressure gradient .  it is assumed that the prandtl number is unity andthat the coefficient of viscosity varies linearly with the temperature .a general approximate solution which permits a rapid determination ofthe boundary-layer characteristics for any given free-stream mach numberand given velocity distribution at the outer edge of the boundary layeris obtained .  numerical examples indicate that this solution will inpractice lead to results of satisfactoryaccuracy, including the criticalreynolds number for stability .  for the special purpose of calculatingthe location of the separation point in an adverse pressure gradient, ashort and simple method, based on the use of a seventh-degree velocityprofile, is derived .  the numerical example given here indicates thatthis method should in practice lead to sufficiently accurate results .for the special case of flow near a forward stagnation point it is shownthat the karman-pohlhausen method with the usual fourth-degree profilesleads to results of adequate accuracy, even for the critical reynoldsnumber .
  a theoretical study is made of the effect of pressure gradient,wall temperature, and mach number on laminar boundary-layer characteristicsand, in particular, on the skin-friction and heat-transfercoefficients, on the separation point in an adverse pressure gradient,on the wall temperature required for complete stabilization of thelaminar boundary layer, and on the minimum critical reynolds number forlaminar stability .  the prandtl number is assumed to be unity and thecoefficient of viscosity is assumed to be proportional to the temperature,with a factor arising from the sutherland relation .  a simple andaccurate method of locating the separation point in a compressible flowwith heat transfer is developed .  numerical examples to illustrate theresults in detail are given throughout .
  the hypersonic similarity law as derived by tsien has been investigatedby comparing the pressure distributions along bodies of revolutionat zero angle of attack .  in makingthese comparisons, particular attentionwas given to determining the limits of mach number and finenessratio for which the similarity law applies .  for the purpose of thisinvestigation, pressure distributionsdetermined by the method of characteristicsfor ogive cylinders forvalues of mach numbers and finenessratios varying from 1.5 to 12 were compared .pressures on various conesand on cone cylinders were also compared in this study .  the pressure distributions presented demonstrate that the hypersonicsimilarity law is applicable over awider range of values of mach numbersand fineness ratios than might be expected from the assumptions made inthe derivation .  this is significant since within the range of applicabilityof the law a single pressuredistribution exists for all similarlyshaped bodies for which the ratio offree-stream mach number to finenessratio is constant .  charts are presentedfor rapid determination of pressuredistributions over ogive cylinders for any combination of mach numberand fineness ratio within defined limits .
  the analysis of technical note 2250, 1950, is extended to includethe effects of flow rotation .  it isfound that the theoretical pressuredistributions over ogive cylinders can be related by the hypersonicsimilarity rule with sufficient accuracy for most engineering purposes .  the error introduced into pressure distributions and drag of ogivecylinders by ignoring the rotation term in the characteristic equationsis investigated .  it is found thatthe influence of the rotation term onpressure distribution and drag depends only upon the similarity parameterk (mach number divided by fineness ratio) .although the error indrag, due to neglect of the rotation term, is negligible at k=0.5, theerror is about 30 percent at k=2.0 .  charts are presented for the rapid determination of pressuredistributions for rotational flow overogive cylinders for all values ofthe similarity parameter between 0.5 andof mach number and fineness ratio .
  measured pressure distributions on cones are compared with modifiednewtonian theory .  deviations as large as 14 percent of the stagnationpressure behind a normal shock are found .by combining empirical resultsfor cylinders normal to the flow withnewtonian concepts, a method of calculatingpressures on cones at high anglesof attack is developed .  calculationsby this method differ from theexperimental results on sharp conesby only 2 percent of the stagnationpressure behind a normal shock .  forblunted cones, additional deviationsup to 8 percent are noted near thenose .  schlieren pictures of the flow show an attached shock on the sharpof attack .  detachment of the shock appearsto be associated with theattainment of sonic speed immediatelybehind the shock .  an orifice size effect is found which can increase the indicatedpressure above the true value, ifthe orifice width is greater than onetenththe local radius of curvature .
  the three partial differential equations of the laminar boundarylayer for two-dimensional steady-state compressible flow have beentransformed into two ordinary differential equations by the method ofpohlhausen, falkner, and skan .  the ordinary equations include parametersfor expressing the simultaneous effects of pressure gradient inthe main-stream flow through a porous wall and property changes in thefluid due to large temperature differences between the wall and thefree stream .  a total of 58 cases have been solved numerically by the method ofpicard .  the euler number (nondimensional pressure-gradient parameter)ranges in value from 1 (stagnation-point value) to the negative valuesfound at the laminar separation points .  three rates of flow throughthe porous wall were considered (including the impermeable case wherethe flow rate is 0) .  five temperature ratios (stream temperaturedivided by wall temperature) were used ..  the uncooled and unheatedcase (temperature ratio of 1), two cooled cases (temperature ratios ofture ratios of and ) .  velocity, weight-flow, and temperaturedistributions are tabulated as are the dimensionless stream function offalkner and skan and its derivatives and the dimensionless temperaturefunction of pohlhausen and its derivatives .  for each case, displacement, momentum, and convection thicknesses,as well as nusselt number and coefficient of friction at the wall, werecomputed .
  the velocity potentials, span loadings, and corresponding forceand moment derivatives have been theoretically evaluated for a numberof slender-tail arrangements performing a steady rolling motion atsupersonic speeds .  the method of analysis is based upon an application of conformaltransformationtechniques .  the utilization of these techniques allowsthe simple determination of the complex potentials for various typesof two-dimensional boundary-value problems .  in addition, two simple and often-used approximations to therolling derivatives have been compared with the corresponding exactvalues determined by the method presented in this report .  in order to show the importance of wing-tail interference, theeffect of the flow field behind a rolling wing on the tail characteristicshas been illustrated for a simple wing-tail arrangement .
  the use of a magnetic field to control the motion of electricallyconducting fluids is studied .  the boundary-layer solutions are foundfor flow over a flat plate when the magnetic field is fixed relative tothe plate or to the fluid .  theequations are integrated numerically forthe effect of the transverse magneticfield on the velocity and temperatureprofiles, and hence, the skin friction and rate of heat transfer .  it is concluded that the skin friction and the heat-transfer rate arereduced when the transverse magneticfield is fixed relative to the plateand increased when fixed relative to the fluid .  the total drag isincreased in all the cases studied .
  stewartson's transformation is applied to the laminar compressibleboundary-layer equations and therequirement of similarity is introduced,resulting in a set of ordinary nonlinear differential equations previouslyquoted by stewartson, but unsolved .  the requirements of thesystem are ..  prandtl number of 1.0, linear viscosity-temperature relationacross the boundary layer, anisothermal surface, and the particulardistributions of free-stream velocityconsistent with similar solutions .this system admits axial pressuregradients of arbitrary magnitude, heatflux normal to the surface, and arbitrary mach numbers .  the system of differential equations is transformed to an integralsystem, with the velocity ratio asthe independent variable .  for thissystem, solutions are found for pressure gradients varying from thatcausing separation to the infinitely favorable gradient and for walltemperatures from absolute zero to twice the free-stream stagnation temperature.  some solutions for separated flows are also presented .  for favorable pressure gradients, the solutions are unique .  foradverse pressure gradients, where the solutions are not unique, twosolutions of the infinite family of possible solutions are identified asessentially viscid at the outer edge of the boundary layer and the remainderessentially inviscid .  forthe case of favorable pressure gradientswith heated walls, the velocity withina portion of the boundary layer isshown to exceed the local external velocity .the variation of a reynoldsanalogy parameter, which indicates the ratio of skin friction to heattransfer, is from zero to 7.4 for a surface of temperature twice thefree-stream stagnation temperature, and from zero to 2.8 for a surfaceheld at absolute zero where the value 2 applies to a flat plate .
  viscous self-induced pressures on 3 -semivertex-angle cones weremeasured over the range 3.7 free-stream mach number 5.8 and 0.5viscous-interaction parameter 2.3 .  the data were found to be in goodagreement with results obtained by talbot on 5 cones in the rangerameter 3.5 .  all these data were correlated reasonably well by theviscous-interaction parameter, which is defined aswhere and are the mach number and reynolds number based onideal taylor-maccoll flow conditions and c is the chapman-rubesinfactor .  a new method for calculating self-induced pressures is presentedwhich takes into account the interaction between boundary-layer growthand the inviscid-flow field at the outer edge of the boundary layer .pressures calculated by this method were only 10 to 20 percent higherthan the measured values .
  analysis is made of the flow field produced by oblique impingementof weak plane disturbances of arbitraryprofile on a plane normal shock .three types of disturbance are considered ..moves .  the sound wave refracts eitheras a simple isentropic sound waveor as an attenuating isentropic pressure wave, depending on the anglebetween the shock and the incidentsound wave .  a stationary vorticitywave of constant pressure appears behind the shock .reflects as a sound wave, and a stationary vorticity wave is produced .the shock .  the incident wave refracts as a stationary vorticity wave,and either a sound wave or attenuating pressure wave is also produced .  computations are presented for the first two types of incident wave,over the range of incidence angles, for shock mach numbers of 1, 1.5,and .
  an arbitrary weak spatial distribution of vorticity can be representedin terms of plane sinusoidal shear waves of all orientations andwave lengths (fourier integral) .  the analysis treats the passage of asingle representative weak shear wave through a plane shock and showsrefraction and modification of the shear wave with simultaneous generationof an acoustically intense soundwave .  applications to turbulenceand to noise in supersonic wind tunnels are indicated .
  temperatures and thermal stresses in typical skin-stiffener combinationsof winglike structures subjected to aerodynamic heating havebeen obtained with the aid of an electronic differential analyzer .variations were made in an aerodynamicheat-transfer parameter, in a jointconductivity parameter, and in the ratioof skin width to skin thickness .the results, which are presented in nondimensional form, indicate thatdecreasing the joint conductivity parameter lowers both the interiorand the average temperature ratios, increases the peak thermal stressratios in the skin, and may considerably increase the peak stiffenerstress ratios,. increasing the aerodynamic heat-transfer parameterdecreases the interior and average temperature ratios, increases thepeak skin stress ratios somewhat,but greatly increases the peak stiffenerstress ratios,. and increasing the ratio of skin width to skinthickness produces only moderate decreases in the peak skin stressratios while moderately increasing the peak stiffener stress ratios .
  an analysis is given of the oscillatory motions of vehicles whichtraverse ascending and descending paths through the atmosphere at highspeed .  the specific case of a skip path is examined in detail, andthis leads to a form of solution for the oscillatory motion which shouldrecur over any trajectory .  the distinguishing feature of this form isthe appearance of the bessel rather than the trigonometric function asthe characteristic mode of oscillation .
  some illustrations of the differences that may be expected betweenresults obtained in hypersonic wind tunnels that employ air and resultsobtained in those that employ helium as the test medium (imperfect-gaseffects are not considered) are compiled and presented herein .  simpleexpressions are presented that demonstrate the possibility of simulatingair results in helium tests and of transforming helium data to equivalentair data .  nonviscous and viscous simulations are considered .  inmost cases, the methods and the general forms of the expressions forsimulation that are derived are applicable to any two ideal gases havingdifferent ratios of specific heats .
  methods based on oblique- and normal-shock relationships and thecontinuity of mass flow through suitably chosen volume elements betweenthe shock and body were developed to predict shock envelopes about twotypes of vehicles being considered for atmosphere entry .  one type is ahigh-drag capsule shape .  the other type is essentially a slender triangularwing capable of providing high lift or high drag, depending onthe angle of attack .  predicted and measured shock envelopes were comparedfor a mach number range of 3 to 15 for vehicles at high angles ofattack,. good agreement was found .  most of the available experimentaldata were in a speed and temperature range in which no important realgaseffects occurred .
  a study of experimental pressure distributions and section characteristicsfor several moderately thick airfoil sections was made .  acorrelation appears to exist between the drag-divergence mach numberand the free-stream mach number for which sonic velocity occurs at theairfoil crest, the chordwise station at which the airfoil surface istangent to the free-stream direction .  it was found that, since themach number for which sonic velocity occurs at the airfoil crest can beestimated satisfactorily by means of the prandtl-glauert rule, a methodis provided whereby the drag-divergence mach number of an airfoilsection at a given angle of attack can be estimated from the low-speedpressure distribution and the airfoil profile .  this method was usedto predict with a reasonable degree of accuracy the drag-divergencemach number of a considerable number of airfoil sections having diverseshapes and a wide range of thickness-chord ratios .  the pressure distributions and section force characteristics ofseveral moderately thick airfoil sections at mach numbers above thedrag-divergence mach number were analyzed .  some of the characteristicsof the flow over these airfoils at supercritical mach numbers arediscussed .
  a study was made of the laminar compressible boundary layer inducedby a shock wave advancing into a stationary fluid bounded by a wall .for weak shock waves, the boundary layer is identical with that whichoccurs when an infinite wall is impulsively set into uniform motionshocks .  velocity and temperature profiles, recovery factors, and skinfrictionand heat-transfer coefficients are tabulated for a wide rangeof shock strengths .
  the boundary layer behind a shock or thin expansion wave advancinginto a stationary fluid has been determined .  laminar and turbulentboundary layers were considered .  the wall surface temperature behindthe wave was also investigated .  the assumption of a thin expansionwave is valid for weak expansions but becomes progressively lessaccurate for strong expansion waves .  the laminar-boundary-layer problem was solved by numerical integrationexcept for the weak wave case,which can be solved analytically .integral (karman-pohlhausen type)solutions were also obtained to providea guide for determining expressionswhich accurately represent the numericaldata .  analytical expressionsfor various boundary-layer parametersare presented which agree with thenumerical integrations within 1 percent .  the turbulent-boundary-layer problem was solved using integral methodssimilar to those employed for thesolution of turbulent compressibleflow over a semi-infinite flat plate .the fluid velocity, relative tothe wall, was assumed to have a seventhpowerprofile .  the blasius equation,relating turbulent skin frictionand boundary-layer thickness, wasutilized in a form which accounted for compressibility .  consideration of the heat transfer to the wall permitted the wallsurface temperature, behind the wave,to be determined .  the wall thicknesswas assumed to be greater than thewall thermal-boundary-layerthickness .  it was found that the walltemperature was uniform (as afunction of distance behind the wave)for the laminar-boundary-layer casebut varied with distance for the turbulent-boundary-layer case .
  in the present report the stability of two-dimensional laminarflows of a gas is investigated by the method of small perturbations .the chief emphasis is placed on the case of the laminar boundary layer .  part 1 of the present report deals with the general mathematicaltheory .  the general equations governing one normal mode of the smallvelocity and temperature disturbances are derived and studied in greatdetail .  it is found that for reynolds numbers of the order of thoseencountered in most aerodynamic problems, the temperature disturbanceshave only a negligible effect on those particular velocity solutionswhich depend primarily on the viscosity coefficient (/viscous solutions/).  indeed, the latter are actually of the same form in thecompressible fluid as in the incompressible fluid, at least to the firstapproximation .  because of this fact, the mathematical analysis isgreatly simplified .  the final equation determining the characteristicvalues of the stability problem depends on the /inviscid solutions/ andthe function of tietjens in a manner very similar to the case of the incompressiblefluid .  the second viscosity coefficient and thecoefficient of heat conductivity do not enter the problem,. only theordinary coefficient of viscosity near the solid surface is involved .  part 2 deals with the limiting case of infinite reynolds numbers .the study of energy relations is very much emphasized .  it is shownthat the disturbance will gain energy from the main flow if the gradientof the product of mean density and mean vorticity near the solid surfacehas a sign opposite to that near the outer edge of the boundary layer .  a general stability criterion has been obtained in terms of thegradient of the product of density and vorticity, analogous to therayleigh-tollmien criterion for the case of an incompressible fluid .if this gradient vanishes for some value of the velocity ratio of themain flow exceeding 1-1/m (where m is the free stream mach number) .
  interferometric measurements were made of the density profiles ofan unsteady turbulent boundary layer on the flat wall of a shock tube .the investigation included both subsonic and supersonic flow (mach numbersof 0.50 and 1.77) with no pressure gradient and with heat transferto a cold wall .  velocity profiles and average skin-frictioncoefficients were calculated .  effects on the velocity profile ofsurface roughness and flow length are examined .
  some discussion of the acoustic fatigue problem of aircraft structuresis given along with data pertaining to the acoustic inputs fromsome powerplants in common use .  comparisons are given for results ofsome fatigue tests of flat panels and cantilever beams exposed to bothrandom- and discrete-type inputs .  in this regard it appears that boththe stress level of the test and the type of model are significant,.hence, no generalization can be made at this time .  with regard toincreasing the fatigue life, it was noted that increased stiffening ofa panel due to curvature and pressure differential is particularlybeneficial .
  the results are presented for a flight test program using a fightertype jet aircraft flying at pressure altitudes of 10,000, 20,000, andapparatus was used to measure and record the output of microphones andhot-wire anemometers mounted on the forward-fuselage section and wing ofthe airplane .  mean-velocity profiles in the boundary layers wereobtained from total-pressure measurements .  the ratio of the root-mean-square fluctuating wall pressure to thefree-stream dynamic pressure is presented as a function of reynolds numberand mach number .  the longitudinalcomponent of the turbulent-velocityfluctuations was measured, and the turbulence-intensity profiles arepresented for the wing and forward-fuselage section .  in general, the results are in agreement with wind-tunnel measurementswhich have been reported in the literature .  for example, thevariation of (is the root mean square of the wall-pressurefluctuation, and q is the free-stream dynamic pressure) with reynoldsnumber was found to be essentially constant for the forward-fuselagesectionboundary layer, while variations at the wing station were probablyunduly affected by the microphone diameter, which waslarge compared with the boundary-layer thickness .
  long-range hypervelocity vehicles are studied in terms of theirmotion in powered flight, and their motion and aerodynamic heating inunpowered flight .  powered flight isanalyzed for an idealized propulsionsystem which rather closely approachespresent-day rocket motors .  unpoweredflight is characterized by a returnto earth along a ballistic, skip,or glide trajectory .  only thosetrajectories are treated which yield themaximum range for a given velocity at the end of powered flight .  aerodynamicheating is treated in a mannersimilar to that employed previouslyby the senior authors in studying ballistic missiles (naca tn 4047),with the exception that radiant as well as convective heat transfer isconsidered in connection with glide and skip vehicles .  the ballistic vehicle is found to be the least efficient of theseveral types studied in the sensethat it generally requires the highestvelocity at the end of powered flight in order to attain a given range .this disadvantage may be offset, however, by reducing convective heattransfer to the re-entry body throughthe artifice of increasing pressuredrag in relation to friction drag - thatis, by using a blunt body .  thusthe kinetic energy required by the vehicle at the end of powered flightmay be reduced by minimizing the mass of coolant material involved .  the glide vehicle developing lift-drag ratios in the neighborhoodof and greater than 4 is far superiorto the ballistic vehicle in abilityto convert velocity into range .  it has the disadvantage of having farmore heat convected to it,. however, it has the compensating advantagethat this heat can in the main be radiatedback to the atmosphere .  consequently,the mass of coolant material may be kept relatively low .  the skip vehicle developing lift-drag ratios from about 1 to 4 isfound to be superior to comparable ballistic and glide vehicles in convertingvelocity into range .  atlift-drag ratios below 1 it is found tobe about equal to comparable ballisticvehicles while at lift-drag ratios
  an analytical investigation is made of a precession-type instabilitywhich can occur in a flexibly supported aircraft-engine-propeller combination.  by means of an idealizedmathematical model which is comprisedof a rigid power-plant system flexiblymounted in pitch and yaw to a fixedbackup structure, the conditions required for neutral stability aredetermined .  the paper also examines the sensitivity of the stabilityboundaries to changes in such parametersas stiffness, damping, and asymmetriesin the engine mount, propellerspeed, airspeed, mach number, propellerthrust, and location of pitch and yaw axes .  stability is foundto depend strongly on the damping and stiffness in the system .  with the use of nondimensional charts theoretical stability boundariesare compared with experimental results obtained in wind-tunneltests of an aeroelastic airplane model .  in general, the theoreticalresults, which do not account for wing response, show the same trendsas observed experimentally,. however,for a given set of conditions calculatedairspeeds for neutral stabilityare consistently lower than themeasured values .  evidently, this result is due to the fact that wingresponse tends to add damping to the system .
  an investigation was made to determine the combined effects of surfacecooling, pressure gradients, nose blunting, and surface finish onboundary-layer transition .  data were obtained for various body shapesat a mach number of 3.12 and reynoldsnumbers per foot as high as 15x10 .  previous transition studies, with moderate cooling, have shown agreementwith the predictions of stability theory .  for surface roughnessesranging from 4 to 1250 microinches the location of transition was unaffectedwith moderate cooling .  with extreme cooling, an adverse effectwas observed for each of the parameters investigated .  in general, thetransition reynolds number decreased withdecreasing surface temperature .in particular, the beneficial effects of a favorable pressure gradientobtained with moderate cooling disappear with extreme cooling, and atransition reynolds number lower thanthat observed on a cone is obtained .further, an increase in the nose bluntness decreased the transitionreynolds number under conditions of extreme cooling .
  an investigation was made in the langley 4 by 4-foot supersonicpressure tunnel at mach numbers of 1.61 and 2.01 to determine (1) theeffect of distributed roughness on boundary-layer transition with themodel surface at adiabatic wall temperature and cooled and (2) theeffect of surface cooling on the lateral spread of turbulence .  bothdistributed granular-type and single spherical roughness particles wereused, and transition of the boundary layer was determined by hot-wireanemometers .  the transition-triggering mechanism of the threedimensionalroughness at supersonic speeds appeared to be the same asthat previously observed at subsonic speeds .  in fact, the criticalvalue of the roughness reynolds number parameter (that is,the value at which turbulent spots are initiated by the roughness) wasfound to be approximately the same at supersonic and subsonic speedswhen complete local conditions at the top of the roughness, includingdensity and viscosity, were considered in the formulation of the roughnessreynolds number .  for three-dimensional roughness at a reynoldsnumber less than its critical value, the roughness introduced no disturbancesof sufficient magnitude to influence transition .  surfacecooling, although providing a theoretical increase in stability to smalldisturbances, did not increase to any important extent the value of thecritical roughness reynolds number for three-dimensional roughness particles.  cooling, therefore, because of its effect on the boundarylayerthickness, density, and viscosity actually promoted transition dueto existing three-dimensional surface roughness for given mach andreynolds numbers .  the measured lateral spread of turbulence in theboundary layer appeared to be unaffected by the increased laminarstability derived from the surface cooling .
  the flow and heat transfer about a rotating isothermal disk are reexaminedto include the effects of compressibility and property variations.  if viscous dissipation is neglected,the compressible problem iscorrelated to the incompressible problem by assuming linear variationsof viscosity and thermal conductivity with temperature .  certain inaccuraciesin several previous incompressible solutions are noted andcorrected herein .  the effect of compressibility appears as adistortion of the normal coordinate and normal velocity component and asa multiplicative factor in the heat-transfer coefficient, the nusseltnumber, and in the expressions for the skin-friction components andtorque required to rotate the disk .
  the melting-type heat protection at the stagnation point of are-entering irbm is treated by employing homogeneous, opaque, andnondecomposing glass shields which do not exceed a temperature ofsome effects due to variations of the glass properties .  the ballisticre-entry vehicle has a nose diameter of 0.635 m, a ballistic factorof 3.5 x 10, a re-entry angle of 124.9 (from thevertical) at an altitude of 100 km, and a re-entry speed of 4.5 .the performance of 36 different glass shields with assumedcombinations of material properties is investigated by employing acalculation method which yields practically exact, transient solutionsfor the problem .  as a corollary, results for a certain steady flightstate are also given .  the discussions made it possible to deriveunder realistic flight conditions some thermal characteristics for theemployment of thin, or light-weight, glass shields .  investigation of these hypothetical glass shields leads to theconclusion that a low thermal conductivity and a high specific heat,and thus, a small thermal diffusivity are most desirable .  a smallthermal diffusivity yields high surface temperatures, causing a highradiative heat transfer out of the shield,. and steep temperature profilesnormal to the surface, causing a small thermal penetration acrossthe shield with little total ablation of the shield .  results show thatfor the assumed irbm re-entry, the necessary thickness of the employedglass shields increases monotonically with thermal diffusivity which isthe only material parameter affecting this thickness .  a high viscosity level and a high emissivity constant of the surfaceof the supposedly opaque shield are also desirable,. although,these two properties exert a comparatively small influence on theoverall performance when disregarding glass shields with an extremelylow viscosity level .
  as a result of studies made during theinternational geophysical year (igy) and theinternational geophysical cooperation (igc),it is known that a considerable fraction oflarge solar flares give rise to almost purestreams of protons which reach the earth andcontinue to arrive for as long as 11 days .the energies of these particles lie within avery steep spectrum extending from 20 toleast 500 mev .  because of the frequencyof large flares during times of high solar activity,and owing to the long duration of eachsolar proton emission, these particles werepresent in detectable intensity near the topof the earth's atmosphere for about 15 percentof the time from 1957 to 1960 .  the numberof large flares that accelerated and releasedthese particles during this three-year period was about 30 .  the event that began on august 22, 1958contributed greatly toward the understandingof the solar and terrestrial sequence of events,and in addition provided the first identificationof the emitted particles .  a flare on mayof protons in the neighborhood of the earth thatthis phenomenon was recognized as anadditional radiation hazard to manned vehiclesin the high atmosphere and in most partsof the solar system .  the three very intenseevents that occurred in july, 1959 furthersupported this conclusion, and the possibilityof predicting such events became an importantconsideration .  in addition to its valuein the protection of human beings, effectiveforecasting clearly would be of great value inthe detailed scientific study of this phenomenon.  this paper presents a preliminarydiscussion of some aspects of predicting thearrival of protons at the earth following theappearance of solar activity features and,equally important, of forecasting the periodswhen this penetrating radiation is unlikelyto occur .
  this report presents the results of an experimental investigationof the downstream influence of localized mass transfer in thestagnation region of a blunt body under hypersonic flow conditions.  the coolant is injected through a porous plug coaxialwith the centerline of symmetry of the model .  the tests werecarried out in a wind tunnel with a mach number of 6.0, stagnationtemperatures of approximately 1,600 r., and a stagnationpressure of approximately 600 psia .  four different gases wereinjected over a range of mass flows .  the heat transfer on the impermeablesection was measured under isothermal wall conditions,.for the higher rates of mass flow, adiabatic surface temperatureswere also determined .  the theoretical analysis of theboundary-layer flow is investigated in order to establish the similarityparameters for the flow system .  these parameters permitthe extrapolation of the test results to other flow conditions,provided that laminar flow prevails .  helium is found to be themost efficacious coolant .
  the trail left in the atmosphere by a body moving at hypersonicspeeds is the subject of theoretical treatment .  the times requiredfor ionization and dissociation (and their inverse processes)to go to completion, when compared to the flow times of a gasparticle, are important in determining the observable effects ofhypersonic trails-i.e., emitted thermal radiation and reflectionof electromagnetic waves from the trail .  in order to simplify the theoretical treatment, the trail isdivided into two regions ..  (1) the expansion-controlled trail,which treats the behavior of the wake behind the body up to apoint, along the direction of flight, where the pressure decays tothe free-stream value and cooling is controlled principally by theexpansion of the flow, and (2) the conduction-controlled trail,where the trail cools mainly by diffusion of heat away from thehigh-temperature core .  the influence of the details of the body shape on the observablesare discussed and a simple computational procedure forthe behavior of the conduction-controlled trail is developed basedon integral methods .  results of calculations that assume thermodynamicequilibrium of the flow field give the values of thethermodynamic variables in the trail of a sphere, axial distributionsof emitted thermal radiation, and maps of electron densitydistribution .  it is shown that the cooling of the conductioncontrolledtrail is essentially due to conduction of heat and thatviscous effects are not important .  it is found that this portionof the trail does not widen as one proceeds downstream .  flightvelocities considered vary between 15,000 and 35,000 ft sec andaltitudes range between 100,000 and 250,000 ft .
  an /exact/ flow theory of peripheral jets issuing symmetricallyfrom a hovering aerial-ground vehicle is presented .  thetheory is exact insofar as no simplifying assumptions have beenmade in obtaining a solution of the governing inviscid, twodimensionalhydrodynamical flow equations .  the results arevalid for all jet thickness vehicle height ratios .  the limit ofapplicability of existing theories (very low thickness heightratios) are defined .  jet reaction, lift, and power coefficients forstatic conditions are introduced and computed .  lift augmentationand lift power ratios are also calculated .  applications to three-dimensional vehicles with rotationalsymmetry are indicated .
the incompressible flow of an electrically conducting fluid past a porousplate with constant suction velocity in the presence of a transverseuniform strength has recently been investigated by gupta .  inthis note, the problem is generalized to take into account the effect offree convection, when a body force is acting parallel to the wall .  thefluid is assumed to be semi-incompressible as usual .  in addition tothe obvious practical significance, this problem is also interesting inthe sense that it provides another exact solution of the magnetohydrodynamicequations, since the only electromagnetic assumptions involvedare constant properties and freedom from excessive charges .
it has been shown that transverse magnetic fields of practicalstrengths exert considerable influence on liquid-metal, freeconvection,vertical, flat-plate and parallel-plate flow fields .the extent of influence was determined by the magnitude of anondimensional parameter a which is the ratio of the hartmannnumber to the fourth root of the grashof number, and is ameasure of the relative influence of the magnetic and buoyantforces .  in this note the steady, fully developed, laminar, freeconvectionflow of a fluid of electrical conductivity througha fully submerged, open-ended, constant-temperature, verticalpipe located in a transverse magnetic field of strength isanalyzed in terms of the same parameter .  the magnitude ofits influence on the velocity and temperature profiles, the surfaceshear and heat transfer, and the volumetric flow rate is determined.
  the present article describes an investigation of several types ofseparated regions such as blunt-base wakes and cavities formedin cutouts in the boundaries and ahead of or behind two-dimensionalsteps in supersonic (mach numbers 2 to 4) and subsonicflow .  the conditions for the existence, the geometry,and the pressure field are described in this paper .  a second article (to be published) will describe investigations ofthe internal flow and the heat transfer across such separatedregions .  it is found that there is a maximum (critical) ratio of the lengthof the separated free-shear layer to the depth of the depressionin the boundary beyond which the cavity collapses, leavingmutually independent separated regions at each protrusion .this critical length changes greatly upon laminar-turbulenttransition in the oncoming boundary layer,. in either laminar orturbulent flow it is approximately independent of mach andreynolds numbers .  a semiempirical correlation predicting theconditions under which the flow will span a depression of arbitrarydepth is proposed .  detailed pressure distributions along the boundaries of acavity (in turbulent flow) are presented as a function of the ratioof the cavity length to the critical length, which is found to bethe pertinent similarity parameter .  for short notchesthe impact pressure due to the reversal of the inner portionof the shear layer at recompression tends to thicken the shearlayer and a type of boundary layer-free stream interactiongoverns the pressure field .  the pressure in the cavity is nearlyconstant and can be higher than free-stream .  in long notchesthe shear layer bends inward at separation andcurves back gradually ahead of the recompression point .  thefloor-pressure variation is pronounced and the recovery pressureat reattachment is small .  the variation of the drag coefficientwith mach number reflects the change from one to the othermechanism of recompression .  detailed surveys of the mach-number distributions in ablunt-body wake and the mixing region behind its throat, aswell as in the shear layer spanning a cutout in a wall, are presentedand analyzed .  it is found that, in general, the assumptions ofthe simple supersonic-wake models which rely on a principle ofsteady flow with mass conservation in the cavity are not adequatefor cavities in which there is recompression against a boundary .  results showing the influence of the thickness of the initialboundary layer (in the range of 0.3 to 3 times the notch depth)and of the geometry of the notch are also presented .
an investigation to determine the feasibility of using aninsulating thermal barrier to protect exposed solid-propellantmotors from atmospheric or environmental temperaturevariations has recently been completed .  in one portion of thisstudy, a solution was developed for the periodic temperature distributionin a two-layer composite slab .  one exposed surface ofthis composite slab was adiabatic, and the other exposed surfacewas subjected to a sinusoidal temperature variation .  the techniqueused in the analysis was similar to that of grober .  in thisnote, pertinent features of the development of the solution aregiven .
in a recent contribution to the reader's forum, under the above title,stonecypher outlined a method for finding the periodic temperature distributionin a two-layer composite slab, one exposed surface of the slabbeing insulated and the other subject to a sinusoidal temperature variation.  perfect thermal contact between the two layers, and constantthermal properties were assumed .two years ago i drew attention in these pages to a method for determiningthe transient temperature in such a two-layer slab resulting from atriangular heat-input pulse .  i should like to point out that this samemethod also is applicable to the case where one external face is givena sinusoidal temperature variation with time .  the method is based onthe analogy between one-dimensional heat flow and the flow of an electriccurrent in a simple transmission line having only series resistanceand parallel capacitance .
  large-scale redundant structure analyses are currentlyfeasible by the use of modern high-speed digital computers .this capability opportunely meets the urgent need to solvecomplex problems which otherwise would be hopelessly beyondthe capacity of the hand desk computer .  however, the difficultieshave now shifted from tedious hand computations to the problemsof adequately representing the structure by a model andof the peculiarities of irregular geometrical configurations .  a wide scope of problem types can be handled by a generalizedprogram approach .  matrix formulation is used for the organizationof input data and for handling data transfer in the largecomplex of subroutines, including the formation of equilibriumand continuity conditions to the final loads and deflections .simultaneous treatment of thermal expansions and plasticityis included .  the use of minimum-size redundant systems is emphasized,starting from the philosophy of cutting members to provide astatically determinate structure .  improved numerical accuracyand problem size capacity is gained for a given computer .examples are discussed ranging from simple plane-load diffusionproblems to pressurized fuselage cutouts and complexwing-fuselage-shell intersection-type problems .
  a survey of existing analytical treatments of the supersonic orhypersonic blunt-body problem indicates that none is adequatefor predicting the details of the flow field .  reasons are given forthe failure of various plausible approximations .  a numericalmethod, which is simpler than others proposed, is set forth forsolving the full inviscid equations using a medium-sized electroniccomputer .  results are shown from a number of solutions forbodies that support detached shock waves described by conicsections .
  the viscous transverse curvature effect in compressible axiallysymmetric laminar boundary-layer flow has been investigated,and it is found that the effect is characterized by the parameterwhich is essentially the ratio of the boundary-layer thicknessto body radius .  it is shown that the busemann and croccointegrals of the two-dimensional energy equation for arestill valid for axially symmetric flow in which the transversecurvature effects are considered .  by a generalization of mangler'stransformation it is then shown that the boundary-layerequations are reducible to an almost two-dimensional form, makingthe analysis simpler for two asymptotic flow regions characterizedby and less than or of the order of unity .it is with the latter region that the present paper is primarilyconcerned, and for this case it is shown that the additional termin the momentum and energy equations, which differentiates themfrom the two-dimensional form, behaves like an external favorablepressure gradient .  except for certain special cases it is necessary to obtain theof the order of unity by means of asymptotic expansions inascending powers of a parameter that is small compared to unitybut proportional to .  it is shown how the asymptotic solutionscan be found for (1) the velocity and temperature distributionsfor the compressible zero pressure gradient case when thebody shapes are given by and and (2) the velocitydistribution for incompressible flow with an external velocityof the form past a body given by .  thezeroth approximation is the mangler result .  for the cases of alinear external velocity distribution, similar profiles can be foundfor all values of .  more generally it is shown that similarprofiles exist if the exponents n and m satisfy the condition that .here, similar is used in the restricted meaningthat the distributions are derivable from ordinary differentialequations .  in the case of the cone and cylinder with zero pressure gradientwhere the equations have been numerically integrated for,the first-order correction to the mangler formulation shows thatthe effect on both the skin-friction coefficient and heat-transferrate can become appreciable in the range where is less thanor of the order of unity .  at a constant, the effects are increasedin magnitude when either the ratio of wall to free-streamtemperature, or mach number, is increased .  also, all otherconditions being equal, for the same value of the skin-frictioncoefficient and heat-transfer increase on the cylinder is greaterthan that on the cone .  for flows with pressure gradient, the transverse curvature termbehaves again like a favorable pressure gradient and tends todelay both separation and transition when compared with axiallysymmetric flows in which the transverse curvature effect is neglected.
  the transient temperature distribution and the thermalstresses in an idealized wing structure considered by hoff andtorda in reference 1 are determined .  only the effects of aerodynamicheating and of heat conduction are included,. radiationand convection effects are neglected .  the present work differsfrom that of reference 1 in that the conduction from the cap tothe web is considered when the temperature of the cap is calculated,and the spar cap temperature is assumed to be a functionof both space and time .  graphs of temperature and thermalstress distributions are presented, and the results are comparedwith those of reference 1 .
a review is presented of the published data on the effect of roughness,especially single roughness elements, on transition from laminar to turbulentflow, in which an attempt is made to reanalyze and correlate theavailable information .  the reanalysis shows that the transitionreynolds number of a flat plate with zero pressure gradient is a functionof the ratio of the height of the roughness element to the displacementthickness of the boundary layer at the element, this functional relationbeing a better representation of the data than a constant criticalreynolds number of the roughness element .  other data show that theeffects of roghness are similar in streams of different initial turbulenceand that a plot of the ratio of transition reynolds number of therough plate to that for the smooth plate against the ratio of the heightof the roughness element to displacement thickness of the boundary layerat the element gives good correlation of all the data for a given shapewhen transition occurs downstream from theroughness element .  at a certain value of the height-thickness ratiodependent on the stream speed, location of roughness element, and airstreamturbulence, the transition position reaches the element and remainsthere as the height or the stream speed is further increased .the paper also discusses available data on the effect of distributedroughness on transition on a flat plate, as well as some of the publisheddata on roughness effects on transition on air-foils .
  by means of a simplified theoretical /model,/ the present papertreats the general class of flow problems characterized by theinteraction between a viscous or dissipative flow near the surfaceof a solid body, or in its wake, and an /outer/ nearly isentropicstream .  for the present, the external flow is taken to be a plane,steady, supersonic flow, which makes a small angle with a planesurface or plane of symmetry, although the methods used can beextended to curved surfaces, to axially symmetric supersonicflows, and also to subsonic flows .  the internal dissipative flowis regarded as quasi-one-dimensional and parallel to the surfaceon the average, with a properly defined mean velocity and meantemperature .  the nonuniformity of the actual velocity distributionis taken into account only approximately by means of arelation between mean temperature and mean velocity .  mixing,or the transport of momentum from outer stream to dissipativeflow, is considered to be the fundamental physical processdetermining the pressure rise that can be supported by the flow .with the aid of this concept, a large number of flow problems isshown to be basically similar, such as boundary-layer-shockwaveinteraction, wake flow behind blunt-based bodies (basepressure problem), flow separation in overexpanded supersonicnozzles, separation on wings and bodies, etc .
  an exact solution of the heat-transfer problem for the vonkarman example of the laminar flow of a viscous fluid over arotating plate is given in dimensionless form and physically discussed.  the solution is explicitly given for a constant temperatureon the plate with viscous dissipation included .  the numericalresults are given for prandtl numbers from 0.5 to 10 .
statistical theory in general considers mean values of certain quantities.  in the case of the turbulent motion one is interested in meanvalues of velocities and of their derivatives, and in mean values ofsquares and products of velocities and their derivatives .  it was o.reynolds who first expressed the so-called apparent or turbulent stressesby the mean values of the products of the velocity components .  thedifferent theories suggested so far have as their common objective theestablishment of relations between certain mean values, e.g. between theturbulent shear stresses given by the mean products of velocity fluctuationsand the derivatives of the mean velocities, i.e. the measured meanvelocity gradients .  in this sort of investigations the conception ofthe /correlation/ is of paramount importance .  the late a. friedmantried to introduce the correlations as unknown variables in the hydrodynamicequations., however, he could not carry his investigations topractical results, i.e., to results which can be compared with the experimentalevidence .  recently, g. i. taylor had success in his analysisof /isotropic/ turbulence by means of correlation calculations, andwas able to discuss, theoretically, the problem of the decay of turbulencein a windstream behind a turbulence producing device .  his theoryraised considerable interest because it is concerned with the importantproblem of wind-tunnel turbulence and its results could be compareddirectly with experimental work done by dryden in this country and byfage, townend and simmons in england .the present paper is concerned with two fundamental problems.. withuniform isotropic turbulence and with the turbulent friction in a parallelstream .  first, the general theory of isotropic turbulence is developed.  this general theory includes taylor's consideration as a specialcase .  however, it
vibration in aircraft structure can almostalways be traced to vibratory forces originatingfrom the power plant .  these forces are transmittedto the aircraft in two ways ..  (1) by the action of airforces upon the surfaces of the aircraft in, or adjacentto, the slip stream of the propeller, and (2) by directtransmission of unbalanced forces from the powerplant through the engine mounting .  the latter hasalways caused the preponderance of disturbance .vibratory stresses induced in the engine mountingstructure occasionally produce fatigue failures in theassociated parts, and always shorten the useful lifeof the entire aircraft structure .  more important,however, are the psychological and physiologicaleffects of continuous vibration and its attendant noiseon the passengers and crew .  this may very likelybe the major source of the rapid fatigue which is sointimately associated with flying .  the importanceand desirability of drastically reducing vibration canhardly be questioned .  this paper is limited to a consideration of the directlytransmitted forces and, further, considers thepower plants as rigid bodies attached by flexible meansto the aircraft which is also considered as a rigid bodyof relatively large mass .  it is also limited to the caseof engines and engine supporting structures havingaxial symmetry (radial engines), although the methodsemployed could easily be extended to other cases .
this paper deals with two limiting cases of laminar heat transfer overblunt-nosed bodies at hypersonic flight speeds, or high stagnation temperatures.. (a) thermodynamic equilibrium, in which the chemical reactionrates are regarded as /very fast/ compared to the rates of diffusionacross streamlines., (b) diffusion as rate-governing, in which the volumerecombination rates within the boundary layer are /very slow/ comparedto diffusion across streamlines .  in either case the gas densitynear the surface of a blunt-nosed body is much higher than the densityjust outside the boundary layer, and the velocity and stagnation enthalpyprofiles are much less sensitive to pressure gradient than in themore familiar case of moderate temperature differences .  in fact, incase (a), the nondimensionalized enthalpy gradient at the surface isrepresented very accurately by the /classical/ zero pressure gradientvalue, and the surface heat-transfer rate distribution is obtained directlyin terms of the surface pressure distribution .  in order toillustrate the method, this solution is applied to the special casesof an unyawed hemisphere and an unyawed, blunt cone capped by a sphericalsegment .in the opposite limiting case where diffusion is rate-controlling thediffusion equation for each species is reduced to the same form as thelow-speed energy equation, except that the prandtl number is replacedby the schmidt number .  the simplifications introduced in case (a) arealso applicable here, and the expression for surface heat transfer rateis similar., the maximum value of the ratio between the rate of heattransfer by diffusion alone and by heat conduction alone in the case ofthermodynamic equilibrium is given by..  (prandtl no./schmidt no .)when the diffusion coefficient is estimated by taking a reasonable valueof atom-molecule collision cross section this ratio is 1.30 .  additionaltheoretical and (especially) experimental studies are clearly requiredbefore these simple results are accepted .
summary ..  the use of models for structural test investigations in thepresence of kinetic heating effects is examined .  the principalfeatures of the complex process to berepresented are discussed under the classificationsexternal air flow, internal heat transfer,elastic response .  of these the second is foundto influence most model design, and ananalysis of a typical structure is included toillustrate the various contributions tointernal heat transfer .
  an idealization of the flow system used by potterand butler is analyzed .  the differential equationof mixing is solved exactly, to give the locationof, and burning rate in, the flame .  the solutionsto the chemical kinetic differential equationare discussed, relations being derived between the jetflow rate at extinction, the chemical kineticconstants and the laminar flame speed in premixedgases .  it is shown that the jet flow rate atextinction is independent of the transport properties .comparison is made with the experimentaldata of potter, heimel and butler .  it is argued thatexperiments must be carried out at higherreynolds numbers if the measurements are to be quantitativelyanalyzable .
  author investigates the existence of a class of similar solutionsfor free convection from a vertical flat plate, such as are known forfree convection in a nonconducting fluid .  the magnetic field actstransversely to the fluid motion and is assumed to remain constantin the direction perpendicular to the plate .  this introduces intothe momentum equation a retarding force which is a function onlyof x, the distance along the plate length .  for similarity it isfound that the magnetic inductance must vary as .  ifthe plate temperature is constant .  if n = 0, the magnetic inductanceis constant while the plate temperature increases linearlywith x .
  in this paper the incompressible boundary layer over acircular cylinder in an axial flow is investigated far from theleading edge .  if u and v are the velocity components in thex and r direction respectively and a stream function isintroduced by and, thenfor a constant free-stream velocity has the followingasymptotic form ..where the p's are determined successively, first for s=1 andall t, then s=2 and all t, etc., from ordinary differential equations.  here and log c=euler'sconstant .  it is shown that the effect of the curvature of thebody (in planes perpendicular to the flow) is to increasethe skin friction .  also the case in which the free-stream velocityis proportional to (at themethod breaks down), is studied .  it is concluded that theeffect of the curvature of the cylinder, when the boundarylayer has a thickness comparable with its radius of curvature,is to delay separation .
  it is shown that in the potential flow ofan incompressible inviscid fluid past abody of revolution set with its axis at rightangles to the stream, the velocity componentsat the surface along and perpendicularto the meridians vary with azimuthalangle round the body in a simple manner .this is shown by entirely elementaryconsiderations .
  using the techniques of boundary-layer theory, the proper thirdboundary condition for the mixing of two parallel streams is derivedfrom the compatibility condition of the higher order approximation.  it is shown that the commonly adopted third boundarycondition of balancing of transverse momentum is correct only forthe mixing problem of two semi-infinite incompressible streams .for the fulfillment of the proper third boundary condition, thepossibility of introducing the similar solution of blasius type isexamined for various cases .
the confluent hypergeometric functions have proved useful in many branchesof physics .  they have been used in such problems involving diffusionand sedimentation, as isotope separation and protein molecularweight determinations in the ultracentrifuge .  the solution of theequation for the velocity distribution of electrons in high frequencygas discharges may frequently be expressed in terms of these functions .the high frequency breakdown electric field may then be predicted theoreticallyfor gases by the use of such solutions together with kinetictheory .this report presents some of the properties of the confluent hypergeometricfunctions together with six-figure tables of the functions .
  a nearly uniform shear flow was obtained in the workingsection of a wind tunnel by inserting a grid of parallel rods withvarying spacing .  the function of such a grid is to impose a resistance to theflow, so graded across the working section as to produce a linearvariation in the total pressure at large distances downstreamwithout introducing an appreciable gradient in static pressure nearthe grid .  a method of calculating a suitable arrangement of therods is described .  although this method is strictly applicableonly to weakly sheared flows, an experiment made with a griddesigned for a shear parameter as large as 0.45 gave results inclose agreement with the theory .  there was no evidence fromthe experiment of any large-scale secondary flow accompanyingthe shear--a danger inherent in an empirical attempt to grade theresistance of the grid--nor was any tendency observed for theshear to decay with increasing distance from the grid .
  this is a lucid introduction to the effects of dissociationin gas dynamics .  the problem in view is that of air flowpast a bluff body at speeds somewhat above 2 km sec .thermodynamic equilibrium is assumed,. theories of nearequilibrium for transport properties and of large departuresfrom equilibrium being promised in parts 2 and 3 .  following a survey of the equilibrium statisticalthermodynamics of a pure dissociating diatomic gas, anew model is introduced .  this /ideal dissociating gas/ ischaracterized by only three constants, the characteristictemperature, density and internal energy for dissociation .physically, it may be regarded as having its vibrationalmodes always just half excited (so that at low temperaturesthe ratio of specific heats approaches 4 3 ratherthen 7 5) .  thermodynamic properties of the ideal gasare derived, and the oblique shock wave relations deducedin the /strong-shock/ approximation (including anelegant relation between the principal curvatures of anybow shock and the subsequent vorticity) .  useful relationsare given for the isentropic changes that take place alongstreamlines between shocks .  various of these results are applied to the problemtypified by a sphere flying at high mach number .  thenewtonian impact theory and its empirical modificationare dismissed as lacking theoretical basis, in favor of thelimit for large values of both mach number and densityratio across the shock .  it is suggested that the zero surfacepressure sometimes predicted by the latter theorycorresponds to separation not of the flow but of the shockwave from the surface .  an estimate is given for the subsequentshape of the shock .  finally, another approximationis applied to the region near the stagnation streamline.  the fluid is assumed incompressible, but rotationalin accord with the shock relations,. and it is shown that aspherical shock corresponds to a concentric spherical body .the resulting surface pressure is within 1 per cent of thatpredicted by freeman's second approximation based onthe newtonian-plus-centrifugal solution (same j. 1 (1956),
  a method, very suitable for use with an automatic computer,of solving the hartree-womersley approximation to theincompressible boundary-layer equation is developed .it is based on an iterative process and the choleski methodof solving a simultaneous set of linear algebraic equations .the programming of this method for an automatic computer isdiscussed .  tables of a solution of the boundary-layerequation in a region upstream of the separation point aregiven .  in the upstream neighbourhood of separationthis solution is compared with goldstein'sasymptotic solution andthe agreement is good .
  this paper studies the steadymotion of an electrically conducting, viscous fluidalong channels in the presence of an imposedtransverse magnetic field when the walls do notconduct currents .  the equations which determinethe velocity profile, induced currents andfield are derived and solved exactly in the caseof a rectangular channel .  when the imposedfield is sufficiently strong the velocity profile isfound to degenerate into a core of uniform flowsurrounded by boundary layers on each wall .the layers on the walls parallel to the imposedfield are of a novel character .  an analogousdegenerate solution for channels of any symmetricalshape is developed .  the predicted pressuregradients for given volumes of flow at various fieldstrengths are finally compared with experimental results for square andcircular pipes .
  improvement in detected signal-to-noise ratio is obtainedfor a periodic signal masked by additive noiseand turbulent noise backgrounds .  comparisons are madebetween autocorrelation, crosscorrelation, and acombination of frequency filtering and crosscorrelation .although the latter method provided the greatestimprovement, the crosscorrelation technique was themost successful single method .  it turned out thatthe maximum improvement obtainable was limited bythe dynamic range of the correlator computer andnot by errors due to finite averaging time and scanningthe delay .  the improvement for signals masked byturbulent noise was found to be about 5 db less than thatobtained for additive noise .
  following the methods of lyon, an analysis of thevibratory response of a plate to a random pressurefield is given .  the pressure correlation of the randomfield is assumed to have a scale small compared tothe plate size, to decay exponentially, and to convectwith constant speed over the plate .  two cases areconsidered, one in which the convection speed is muchless than the speed of free flexural waves in the plate,the other in which the convection speed is the sameorder as the flexural wave speed .  the mean square platedisplacement is shown to be relatively independentof convection for speeds much less than the flexuralwave speed, and to increase significantly for speeds inthe order of the flexural wave speed .  it is shown thatdamping is usually, but not always, an effective meansof vibration reduction .  in the case of convectionspeeds much smaller than the flexural speed, the use ofhysteretic damping for reduction of the displacementresponse is shown to be limited by the decay of theassumed random pressure field .
the paper concerns the hydrodynamic turbulentmotion in the lubricant layer .  proceedingfrom the reynolds equations and introducingthe approximations currently used in lubricationproblems, owing to the lubricant filmthickness, the general motion equations forturbulent lubrication are written .  using the prandtl mixing length hypothesis,exact and approximate solutions areobtained for the velocity distribution into thelubricant layer .  the results are discussed bypointing out the pressure gradient and thereynolds number influence on the velocitydistributions, as well as the differences withrespect to the laminar flow .  in order to obtain simple formulae, theexact dependence of the rate of flow on thepressure gradient into a dimensionless formis replaced by a linear relation, the slope ofwhich depends on the reynolds number .this approximation allows the obtainment ofthe pressure differential equation under asimple form .  the pressure equation is integratedin case of journal bearings, by assuming aconstant or a variable viscosity of the lubricant .  the results are compared to the experimentaldata obtained by m. i. smith and d. d.fuller and the good qualitative agreement is pointed out .
  the stream function for the shear flow with hyperbolicvelocity profile past an elliptic cylinder has been determinedas an infinite series of mathieu functions .  it is found thatthe stagnation streamline of the flow is displaced towardsa region of higher velocity, this displacement increasingthe main stream, (2) as the stream becomes progressivelynon-uniform, (3) with increase of minor axis length whenthe major axis length remains invariant .  in each case the displacementreaches a limiting value as the cylinder moves awayfrom the axis of symmetry of the stream .  these limitingvalues are reached at critical distances from the axis of symmetry,which decrease as the stream becomes progressively non-uniform,but these distances are approximately independent of incidence .  the pressure coefficients and the resultant force and momentcoefficients associated with the cylinder have also been obtained,and investigated numerically for the flat plate type of cylinder .
  an approximate solution for the steadyflow of incompressible viscous liquid pasta paraboloid of revolution is described .an assumption is made for the form of thestokes stream function and substitutedinto the navier-stokes equations usingparaboloidal coordinates .  after makingsuitable approximations, a non-lineardifferential equation for a function f isdeduced .  the solutions of this equationdepend on the reynolds number of theflow considered .  examples found bynumerical integration are given to illustratethe properties of the function f forreynolds numbers varying from 0.0001 tois found, and it is shown that this approximatesolution tends to the perfect fluidflow away from the boundary, allowancebeing made for the displacement effect ofwhat may be called the boundary layer .
  by a method similar to that developed by s. tomotikaand k. tamada (quart. appl. math. 7, 381-397 (1950),.these rev. 11, 275) for computing two-dimensional mixedisentropic flows in the sonic region, the flow in the vicinityof the throat of an axially symmetrical nozzle is studied .several exact solutions to von karman's equation for axiallysymmetrical transonic flows are obtained and the one thatgives flows through a converging and diverging nozzle isconsidered in detail .  this solution consists of four branchesof which two are rejected because of singularities .  of theremaining two branches, one gives pure supersonic flow andthe other gives taylor's type of flow with a local supersonicregion in the throat .  by varying a parameter, the latterbranch approaches two asymptotes which yield meyer'stype of asymmetrical flows .
  van gorcum has pointed to interesting and important analogiesbetween the theory of a passive four-pole and the conduction of heatwaves through stratiform bodies .  this paper generalizes in certainregards van gorcum's ideas and draws their consequences for the case ofa solid, bounded by two infinite parallel planes and consisting of anynumber of layers made from different materials .
preston's method for measuring skin friction in pipes hasbeen extended to include non-uniform flow, with and withoutpressure gradients, over flat surfaces .  by means of amodified form of the reynolds analogy, the local convectiveheat transfer coefficient can be related to the skinfriction, and it is proposed that the method be used inaerodynamic models of furnaces and in heat transfer plantof simple geometry .  more investigations are required ofthe effects of fluid turbulence, surface roughness andsurface curvature on convective heat transfer and skinfriction .
  a physical flow model is devised based on the concepts ofinteraction between the dissipative shear flow and the adjacentfree stream and the conservation of mass in thewake .  four flow components are integrated in the model,.namely, the flow approaching the trailing edge, the expansionaround the trailing edge, the mixing within thefree-jet boundary, and the recompression at the end of thewake .  a unique and stable solution results for the basepressure .  theoretical results obtained for thin approachingboundary layer do not require empirical informationand are, therefore, best suited to evaluate the merits of thetheory .  here emphasized is the case of isoenergetic constant-pressuremixing in the turbulent free-jet boundaryand agreement is found between theory and experimentaldata .
exact conical-flow solutions are available only for circular cones atzero angle of attack .  for nonaxisymmetric cones or cones at angle ofattack, only approximate methods exist .  these methods are generallyquite complicated and further limited to certain body shapes or certainmach-number ranges .  a great need was therefore felt for a simpleapproximate method applicable to any arbitrarily shaped conical body atzero incidence as well as at angle of attack .such a method has been developed recently at lockheed and is presentedhere in abbreviated form .  the method is based on the /equivalent-cone/theory .  this theory determines the pressure on a conical body utilizinginformation for a symmetric cone at zero angle of attack with thesame normal component of the free stream with respect to the surface asthe local element of the body considered .  this method works relativelywell at high mach numbers .  however, it is quite inconsistent at lowermach numbers, especially for bodies which deviate considerably fromcircular cones .  the equivalent-cone method does not give satisfactoryresults, mainly due to the fact that it considers only the local surfaceelement on the body independent of the other body elements in thenewtonian-theory manner .
  the influence of localized mass transfer at the nose of a slendercone under hypersonic flow conditions has been studied by experimentaland theoretical means .  two gaseous coolants, nitrogenand helium, are injected through a porous plug subtending ahalf angle of 30 .  the effect of the mass transfer on the shockshape, pressure distribution, heat transfer, and transition are investigated.  the experimental work involved tests in the machnumber-8.0tunnel at pibal .  the theoretical analysis involveda study of the effect of mass transfer on the shock stand-offdistance and leads to an inviscid-flow parameter permitting theexperimentally determined shock shape and pressure distributionto be extrapolated to other than test conditions and to othercoolant gases .  there is obtained the maximum value of thisparameter resulting in no significant alteration of the pressuredistribution on the cone and thus defining the flows in whichboundary-layer-type similarity applies .  significant reductions in heat transfer are obtained with injection.  indeed, with small amounts of helium injection thepeak heating is found to occur downstream on the cone and to bean order of magnitude less than would occur at the stagnationpoint without mass transfer .  with nitrogen early transition isfound to occur, so that local heating rates are actually increasedover those prevailing at the same reynolds number without injection.
  a number of approximate theories for supersonic and hypersonicflow over bodies of revolution at zero angle of attack areappraised by a critical comparison with characteristics andsecond-order results, with the use of hypersonic similarity as abasis for the comparison .  most of the approximate theoriesare inadequate except over very limited ranges of fineness ratioand mach number .  the combination of second-order supersonictheory and second-order shock-expansion theory providesconsistently good results throughout the supersonic speed range .  on the basis of exact (or nearly exact) supersonic solutions anda limited amount of test data and theory in the transonic region,summary design curves are developed that give the pressuredrag of conical and ogive noses and conical and ogive boattailsover the complete range of transonic, supersonic, and hypersonicmach numbers .  other shapes can be analyzed in the same manner,provided that an equivalent amount of data is available .  the analysis is made with the assumption of inviscid flow,so that the effects of boundary-layer growth, shock-boundarylayerinteraction, and flow separation are not included .  the presentcorrelations provide a sound basis of inviscid-flow resultsfrom which these additional viscous effects can be evaluated .
  measurements of average skin friction of the turbulent boundarylayer have been made on a 15 total included angle cone withforeign gas injection .  measurements of total skin-friction dragwere obtained at free-stream mach numbers of 0.3, 0.7, 3.5, andx 10 with injection of helium, air, and freon-12through the porous wall .  substantial reductions in skin frictionare realized with gas injection within the range of machnumbers of this test .  the relative reduction in skin friction isin accordance with theory--that is, the light gases are mosteffective when compared on a mass flow basis .  there is a markedeffect of mach number on the reduction of average skin friction,.this effect is not shown by the available theories .  limited transitionlocation measurements indicate that the boundary layerdoes not fully trip with gas injection but that the transition pointapproaches a forward limit with increasing injection .  the variationof the skin-friction coefficient, for the lower injection rateswith natural transition, is dependent on the flow reynolds numberand type of injected gas,. and at the high injection rates theskin friction is in fair agreement with the turbulent boundarylayerresults .
  an investigation of the base pressure behind wedges at machnumbers 2 and 3 in the laminar and the transitional regime isreported .  temperature and velocity traverses through themixing zone are shown and exploratory investigations of thewake vortex by use of hot wires and flow-visualization techniquesare described .  it is found that the laminar two-dimensional basepressure agrees well with chapman's theoretical predictions .the shear layer exhibits gross velocity distributions characteristicof the free jet mixing zone, but also shows disturbances thatoriginate in the expansion-turning of the oncoming boundarylayer .  an interesting trailing vortex is observed, which isexplained in terms of nonuniform mixing rate in the wake .
  at each of twenty-one exit mach numbers, rangingfrom 1.008 to 8.238, ten supersonic axially symmetricnozzle shapes with plane sonic surfaces have been computedon the eniac by the method of characteristics .  theboundary of the shortest of each group of ten has asharp edge at the sonic plane, while the others havesmooth boundaries .  this report describes the computationalprocedures and presents a sample of the results for twentynozzles .  more extensive and elaborate tables of the results of theentire computations are available at the ballisticresearch laboratories .  nozzle contours can be obtainedaccurately from them by interpolation for exit mach numbersbetween 1.479 and 8.238 for a wide range of ratios of nozzlelength to throat diameter .
  theoretical investigation is considered of the two-dimensionalsteady flow field at large distance from a finite object set in aviscous incompressible fluid .  study is made of coordinate-typeexpansions for pressure and velocity for large r, uniformly in, forfixed reynolds number, assuming exact boundary conditions at infinityand regularity of flow with zero net mass flow across asimple curve enclosing the object .  mathematical nature of the distinction between parameter andcoordinate-type expansions is discussed with description of innerand outer expansions and matching techniques .  a feature of the expansion procedure is the introduction of anartificial parameter .  inner and outer expansions are matched withthe aid of known solutions of the navier-stokes equations .  analysisrequires simple consideration of the heat and laplace equationswithout resort to special methods .  paper is worth studying by those interested in asymptotic expansionprocedures .
to investigate the theoretical predictions of lighthill on aerodynamicsound, measurements have been made of the sound field of a 1 in. air jetissuing from a long pipe .  the measurements have been made over a widefrequency band (30 to 10,000 cycles/sec.) and in one-third octave bandsin this frequency range .   the mean mach number at the pipe orifice wasvaried from 0.3 to 1.0 .the dependence of the apparent position of the noise sources on frequencyand jet speed was investigated .  at a given frequency a source issituated farther from the jet orifice the higher the jet speed .  lowerfrequency sources appear farther downstream than ones of higher frequency,consistent with their association with larger eddies .  thedirectional characteristics of the sound field at different frequenciesand jet speeds are illustrated by means of scale diagrams showing linesof constant sound intensity .  these sound fields are analyzed in termsof the moving quadrupole sources of lighthill's theory and good agreementobtained .  it is shown that the apparent spread of the sources atlow frequencies is due to the doppler effect .  at low frequency (relativeto the frequency of maximum power output) the radiation is predominantlythat of three mutually orthogonal longitudinal quadrupoleswhich, except for the effect of convection upon it, has a sound fieldlike a monopole source .  at higher frequencies the sound fields oflateral and longitudinal quadrupoles predominate .
  many of the phenomena that occur in the world around us aregoverned by nonlinear relationships .  in the development of themathematical sciences, the difficulties of nonlinear analysis havehindered the formulation of nonlinear concepts that would permitus to understand such phenomena .  in the present article,our progress in understanding the behavior of nonlinear systemsis reviewed and an attempt is made to present the resulting conceptsin such a way that they may be applied with some generalityto other problems .
  the mixing and divergence of a supersonic jet exhausting intoa supersonic stream are investigated theoretically .  in the first part of this paper, the flow is assumed to be laminar .when the velocity and temperature in the jet are differentslightly from those of the surrounding stream, by the method ofsmall perturbations and under ordinary boundary layer assumptions,the equation of motion of two-dimensional flow will bereduced to a form of the well-known equation of heat conduction,whose solution is known for any given boundary conditions .  ithas also been shown that the exact solution of the two-dimensionaljet mixing of viscous compressible fluids can be obtainedby successive approximations starting with the solution of smallperturbations .  velocity and temperature distributions for two cases--one isthe mixing of two-uniform flows and the other is the mixing of ajet of compressible fluid from a two-dimensional nozzle with fullexpansion exhausting into a supersonic stream--have been calculated.  the properties of the jet mixing depend mainly on themomentum of the jet regardless of whether the change of momentumis due to the change of velocity or the change of temperature--i.e.,the change of density .  compressibility has a considerableeffect on the properties of the jet .  in the second part, the cases of turbulent flow are investigated .by means of reichardt's theory of free turbulence, the turbulentshearing stress may be expressed as  it has been shown in this paper thatwhere is a constant that can be determined experimentally .the value of n lies between 0 and 1 .  the exact value of n dependson the condition of mixing .  when the expression of turbulent shearing stress given aboveis used instead of the viscous stress in the equation of motion,by suitable transformation of variables, it has been shown thatthe equation of two-dimensional turbulent jet mixing is identicalto that of the laminar case .  hence, the solution of the first partof this paper can be applied to the turbulent case, provided thatthe characteristic constants and n have been properly chosen .
  this article has as its subject /the conflicting influence onsound propagation of convection on the one hand, and of diffusionand relaxation on the other/, whose importance in the determinationof the structure of shock waves was first appreciated clearlyby sir geoffrey taylor .  as an essential introduction to the maintopics, author gives an exceptionally clear and valuable accountof the physical mechanisms of viscosity, thermal conductivity, andother diffusion effects, including relaxation .  the classical theoryof shock-wave formation is then discussed, and some extensionsare made .  the remainder of the article is based on the demonstration thatthe nonlinear equation for plane progressive sound waves, in whichconvection and diffusion are taken into account to a first approximation,can be transformed into burgers's equation, the generalsolution of which was given by hopf and cole .  this approach, inwhich all flows are continuous (they become discontinuous atshock waves in the limit as viscosity, etc., tend to zero), allowsthe author to re-derive and extend whitham's theory of the formationand decay of weak plane shock waves, and to derive manynew results, such as the velocity distributions during the unionof two shock waves and during the formation of a shock wave .the application of the same idea to non-plane shock waves isalso discussed, but more briefly,. in these cases, burgers's equationis not quite such a good approximation as before .  the article concludes with sections on sound waves whosereynolds numbers based on the length scale of the flow and thevelocity amplitude are comparable with unity, and on the effectsof relaxation on the properties of shock waves .  the whole ismuch more than a survey, and represents a very substantial advancein the theory of sound waves .  it is the finest possibletribute to sir geoffrey taylor that he should be able to inspirearticles such as this and the others in this volume .
  the laminar flow of a viscous incompressible fluid over a twodimensionalcurved surface is investigated for two cases, one inwhich the curvature is /large/ and the other in which it iscases are obtained as approximations from the exact equations ofmotion by an order-of-magnitude analysis .  these equations aresolved for flow over a particular surface with zero surface pressuregradient .  in this analysis, the pressure gradient normal to thesurface is included, and the outer boundary conditions are modifiedin accordance with the requirements of flow over a curvedsurface .  the results indicate that for equal reynolds numbers, thestress on convex surfaces is less than the flat-plate value, whilethe stress on concave surfaces is greater than for a flat plate .  themost important effect of surface curvature, for the cases considered,is the modification of the shape of the velocity profilenear the /outer edge/ of the boundary layer .  the requirementthat a smooth transition exist between the viscous flow and thepotential flow at the outer edge of the layer causes the profile tohave a negative slope near the outer edge for convex surfacecurvature and a positive slope for concave surface curvature .
according to the classical boundary-layer theory the flow about bodiesat reynolds numbers of aeronautical interest can be considered as composedof two regimes..  an outside inviscid flow and a thin boundarylayerregion adjacent to the body .  this point of view leads to theapproximation that, on a slightly curved surface, throughout the layeris negligibly small .  the additional assumption that the inviscid flowis irrotational leads to the requirement that is zero at the outer edgeof the boundary layer .  in this theory any interaction between the tworegimes is accountable by a simple correction to the body shape based onthe boundary-layer displacement thickness .recently, in connection with hypersonic laminar boundary layers, thisclassical point of view has been modified., an interaction between thetwo flow regimes leading to a self-induced axial pressure gradient hasbeen considered .  it is the purpose of the present note to point outanother type of interaction which may be of practical importance and offundamental interest even at mach numbers below those considered in thehypersonic boundary-layer theory and which may have to be considered inthat theory .
it has been shown by ludwieg that the wall shearing stress of a laminaror turbulent boundary layer in an incompressible flow can be determinedfrom a heat-transfer measurement at the surface .  the instrumentused in that investigation was essentially a small, locally insulated,heating element embedded in the test surface .  the size of the instrumentwas restricted by the condition that the thermal boundary layergenerated by the heating element be contained locally within the laminarsublayer .  in the present analysis ludweig's theory for such an instrumentis extended to compressible flow over an insulated flat plate .with the same limitations on the design and operation of the instrumentas mentioned above, it can also be assumed for compressible laminarand turbulent boundary layers that only the flow in the immediate vicinityof the wall or the laminar sublayer will be affected in the regionof the heated element .  this assumption then permits the use of thelaminar boundary-layer equations as the governing equations for thisanalysis for both laminar and turbulent boundary layers .
  existing configurations of supersonic portion of rocket nozzlesare described and compared .  survey covers bell-type conical andcontoured nozzles, annular nozzles, plug nozzles, and the author'sown /e-d/ (expansion-deflection) nozzle .  the latter is a belltypenozzle in which the gases are first deflected radially outwardby a small central plug, then expanded radially inward around thebase of the plug, and finally deflected back to a nearly axial directionby the nozzle wall, in compressive turning .
  a summary is given of some of the more important experimental resultsrelating to the noise radiated from a cold subsonic turbulent jet .these are then related to the predictions of lighthill's general theoryof aerodynamic noise .
the tendency in the past has been to assume thatwhen wakes or non-uniform total head profiles arefed into an axial compressor then substantially constantstatic pressure prevails at the entry, the variations in totalhead appearing as variations in velocity .  this variationin velocity causes variation in incidence on the early stageblade rows and thus can give rise to excitation of bladevibration .  this assumption is implicit, for instance, inreferences 1 and 2, but we think has been a common assumptionby most of the people working in this field .  where the compressor is fed by a duct of substantiallyparallel walls for a reasonable length ahead, such an assumptionappeared justifiable .  such a duct when givenan air flow test with its outlet discharging, for instance,to atmosphere instead of to the compressor, then the distributionassumed would normally be obtained and in factmany surveys of such ducts have been represented in thisfashion .  the object of this note is to show that, in fact,this distribution will not normally occur when the compressoris present and we may normally expect much morenearly a constant velocity into the compressor with attendantstatic pressure distributions to match with the totalhead variations ahead of the intake, with of course, theattendant curved flow to support the static pressuregradients .
  measurements were made of the pressure in a blunt-nosed pitottube, in an air stream at reynolds numbers from about 15 to 1000 .the results are expressed in terms of a pressure coefficientdensity of the fluid, and p and v are the static pressure and velocityin the undisturbed stream .  as found in previous investigations,becomes greater than 1 at low reynolds numbers, theincrease being about at a reynolds number of 50 (basedon external tube radius) .  in disagreement with the work of hurd,chesky, and shapiro, no decrease of below 1 was found at anyreynolds number .  when the values of found by various experiments areplotted against reynolds numbers based on internal tube radius,it is found that the curves are in closer agreement than when theexternal radius is used .
  a simple method of determininglocal turbulent skin friction on a smoothsurface has been developed which utilises around pitot tube resting on the surface .assuming the existence of a region near thesurface in which conditions are functionsonly of the skin friction, the relevant physicalconstants of the fluid and a suitable length,a universal non-dimensional relation isobtained for the difference between the totalpressure recorded by the tube and the staticpressure at the wall, in terms of the skinfriction .  this relation, on this assumption,is independent of the pressure gradient .the truth and form of the relation were firstestablished, to a considerable degree ofaccuracy, in a pipe using four geometricallysimilar round pitot tubes--the diameterbeing taken as representative length .  these fourpitot tubes were then used to determinethe local skin friction coefficient at three stationson a wind tunnel wall, under varyingconditions of pressure gradient .  at each station,within the limits of experimentalaccuracy, the deduced skin friction coefficient wasfound to be the same for each pitottube, thus confirming the basic assumption andleaving little doubt as to the correctnessof the skin friction so found .  pitot traverseswere then made in the pipe and in theboundary layer on the wind tunnel wall .  the resultswere plotted in two non-dimensionalforms on the basis already suggested and theyfell close together in a region whoseouter limit represented the breakdown of thebasic assumption, but close to the wallthe results spread out, due to the unknowndisplacement of the effective centre of apitot tube near a wall .  this again providesfurther evidence of the existence of aregion of local dynamical similarity and of thecorrectness of the skin friction deducedfrom measurements with round pitot tubes onthe wind tunnel wall .  the extent of theregion in which the local dynamical similaritymay be expected to hold appears to varyfrom about to of the boundary-layerthickness for conditions remote from,and close to, separation respectively .
  the development rocket-borne and rocket-launched high-speed airplanemodel test is described .  details of airborne components, telemeteringunits, tracking, and their calibration are also discussed .tests on controls, drag measurements, longitudinal stability evaluations,lift measurements, pressure measurements, aeroelastic estimations,and sonic bang recordings are effected .  the reynolds numbersinvolved are much higher than are usual in the wind tunnel, and extensionsof mach numbers are obtained beyond the tunnel limits, both freeof the tunnel wall interference .
  paper is a good review of knowledge to date on convective heattransfer to objects moving through air at low and high speeds .theoretical and experimental information is given on recovery factorsand heat-transfer coefficients for isothermal surfaces of unsweptflat plates, wedges and cones with attached shock waves,and stagnation points of blunt bodies of revolution, for both laminarand turbulent boundary layers .  a convenient nomograph forcalculating flat plate turbulent boundary-layer heat-transfer coefficientsis given .  effects of surface cooling, surface roughness,and supply stream turbulence on transition are discussed andshown graphically .
  the basic equations under simplifiedconditions for interplanetary flight are derived .for a voyage from planet to planet anunlimited number of orbits is possible .  inorder to give a clear survey of these possibleorbits a diagram is developed from which theapproximate energy-requirement, the duration,and other particulars of a voyage can beeasily found .
  this paper presents the solution of the heat flow problemin composite walls under heat transfer conditionswhich are typical of uncooled rocket engine walls .  analyticexpressions in the form of fourier sums are obtainedfor the temperature distribution in a composite wall consistingof an inner (refractory) medium and an outer (metallic)medium under newtonian heat transfer into thefirst medium with negligible heat transfer from thesecond medium to the exterior .  the expressions obtainedare based on a plane parallel composite slab as a representativemodel for relatively thin cylindrical walls, withthickness-to-radius ratio not exceeding 0.2 .  the generalresults for the composite slab are simplified for the limitingcases of a thin refractory shield with a thick shielded mediumand a thick refractory shield with a thin shieldedmedium .
  from an analysis of the work ofcrocco and others, semi-empirical formulaeare derived for the skin friction on aflat plate at zero incidence with a laminarboundary layer .  these formulae arefor the general case of heat transfer, andwhen there is no heat transfer .  the problem of heat transfer andthe effect of radiation are discussed in thelight of these formulae .  the secondformula is then utilised in the development ofan approximate method for solving themomentum equation of the boundary layeron a cylinder without heat transfer .the method indicates that with increase ofmach number there is a marked forwardmovement of separation from a flat platein the presence of a constant adverse velocity gradient .
  ward's slender-body theory is extended to derive first approximationsto the external forces on slenderbodies of general cross sectionwith discontinuous profile slope .  twoclasses of body are considered ..bodies whose profile (typified by the localradius) is continuous between thenose and base, and certain bodies whoseprofile is discontinuous, such asbodies with annular or side air intakes andwing-bodies on which the winghas an unswept leading edge .  (where airintakes are concerned, it isassumed that they are sharp-edged and thatthere is no /spillage/ of theinternal flow) .  the following conclusions apply tothe former class of bodies .  thevariation of drag with mach number isfound to depend only on the discontinuitiesin the longitudinal rate of changeof the cross-sectional area, and isthus independent of cross-sectional shape .the drag itself is unchanged ifthe direction of the flow is reversed .  theexpressions for lift and momentassume the same forms as for smooth pointedbodies, the lift depending onlyon conditions at the base of the body .  the general theory is applied towinged bodies of revolution with anunswept wing leading edge ..  the resultsbear a marked resemblance to thoseobtained by ward .  the results for wingsalone are seen to be applicable,with one modification, to subsonic as well as to supersonic speeds .
  some recent theoretical work on slender pointed wings at zero lift isco-ordinated and extended .  the wingsconsidered may have any pointed planform shape, provided that the trailingedge is straight and unswept .  the rootsection profile and cross-section shapesare arbitrary, provided that, on anyone wing, the latter are /descriptivelysimilar/ (diamond or parabolic biconvexfor instance), though not necessarilygeometrically similar .  the chief aim ofthe work is to find wings with simplegeometry, low wave drag and pressuredistributions which are unlikely to beseriously affected by viscous effects .wave drag and pressure distributionsare calculated by slender-wing theory .general formulae, which are both simpleand instructive, are given for the wavedrag and the overall pressure distribution,with particular emphasis on the rootpressure distribution .  results for a numberof wings of special interest arepresented and discussed .
  four alternative theoretical treatments of 'displacementthickness', and, generally, of the influence of boundary layersand wakes on the flow outside them, are set out, first for twodimensional,and then for three-dimensional, laminar or turbulent,incompressible flow .  they may be called the methods of 'flowreduction', 'equivalent sources', 'velocity comparison' and  the principal expression obtained for the displacementthickness in three-dimensional flow may be writtenif, as orthogonal coordinates (x,y) specifying position on thesurface, we choose x as the velocity potential of the externalflow, and y as a coordinate, constant along the external-flowstreamlines, such that h dy is the distance between (x,y) andz is the distance from the surface, u and v are the x and y componentsof velocity, and u takes the value u just outside the boundary layer .
  this paper is concerned with the problem of obtaining higherapproximations to the flow past a sphere and a circular cylinderthan those represented by the well-known solutions of stokesand oseen .  since the perturbation theory arising from theconsideration of small non-zero reynolds numbers is a singularone, the problem is largely that of devising suitable techniques fortaking this singularity into account when expanding the solutionfor small reynolds numbers .  the technique adopted is as follows .  separate, locally validthe regions close to, and far from, the obstacle .  reasons arepresented for believing that these 'stokes' and 'oseen' expansionsare, respectively, of the formswhere are spherical or cylindrical polar coordinates madedimensionless with the radius of the obstacle, r is the reynoldsnumber, and and vanish with r .  substitutionof these expansions in the navier-stokes equation then yields aset of differential equations for the coefficients and, butonly one set of physical boundary conditions is applicable to eachexpansion (the no-slip conditions for the stokes expansion, andthe uniform-stream condition for the oseen expansion) so thatunique solutions cannot be derived immediately .  however, thefact that the two expansions are (in principle) both derived fromthe same exact solution leads to a 'matching' procedure whichyields further boundary conditions for each expansion .  it is thuspossible to determine alternately successive terms in eachexpansion .  the leading terms of the expansions are shown to be closelyrelated to the original solutions of stokes and oseen, and detailedresults for some further terms are obtained .
the equations of the boundary layerare integrated by an expression of the formwhere f(x) is a positive function with x=0as the stationary point,. (x) is slowly varying,.the integral contains an unknown parameterwhich is found from the condition .  the integral is evaluated by the method ofsteepest descent .  the expressions obtained areusually divergent, except in few cases whichinclude blasius's equation,. the divergentexpressions are summed by euler's transformation .  to check the procedure it is applied to falknerand skan's equation .  the results obtainedare very striking,. few terms in the expansionsare sufficient to obtain close agreement withhartree's laborious numerical computations .  the method is also applied to the generalboundary-layer equation for the case of flow pastan elliptic cylinder, measured by schubauer .the results obtained are in close agreementwith schubauer's measurements for the velocities,almost up to separation, for the position ofthe separation point,. and in satisfactory agreement downstream ofseparation .
a finite region, with fixed boundaries, of aninfinite expanse of compressible fluid is inturbulent motion .  this motion generates noiseand radiates it into the surrounding fluid .the acoustic properties of the system are studiedin the special case in which the turbulentregion consists of decaying isotropic turbulence .it is assumed that the reynolds numberof the turbulence is large, and that the mach number is small .  the noise appears to be generated mainlyby those eddies of the turbulence whosecontribution to the rate of dissipation of kineticenergy by viscosity is negligible .  it is shown that the intensity of sound at largedistances from the turbulence is the sameas that due to a volume distribution of simple acousticsources occupying the turbulent region .in this analogy, the whole fluid is to be regardedas a stationary and uniform acousticmedium .  the local value of the acoustic power outputp per mass of turbulent fluid is givenapproximately by the formulawhere a is a numerical constant, u is themean-square velocity fluctuation, is the time, andc is the velocity of sound in the fluid .  theconstant a is expressed in terms of the well-knownvelocity correlation function f(r) byassuming the joint probability distribution of theturbulent velocities and their first twotime-derivatives at two points in space to begaussian .  the numerical value isthen obtained by substituting the form of f(r)corresponding to heisenberg's theoreticalspectrum of isotropic turbulence .  it is found that the effects of decay makeonly a small contribution to the value of a, andthat the order of magnitude of a is not changedwhen widely differing forms of the functionf(r) are used .
it is well known that according to classical hydrodynamics a steadystream of frictionless incompressible fluid exercises no resultantforce upon an obstacle, such as a rigid sphere, immersed in it .  thedevelopment of a /resistance/ is usually attributed to viscosity, orwhen there is a sharp edge to the negative pressure which may accompanyit (helmholtz) .  in either case it would seem that resistance involvessomething of the nature of a wake, extending behind the obstacle to aninfinite distance .  when the system of disturbed velocities, althoughit may mathematically extend to infinity, remains as it were attached tothe obstacle, there can be no resistance .the absence of resistance is asserted for an incompressible fluid., butit can hardly be supposed that a small degree of compressibility, as inwater, would affect the conclusion .  on the other hand, high relativevelocities, exceeding that of sound in the fluid, must entirely alterthe conditions .  it seems worth while to examine this question moreclosely, especially as the first effects of compressibility are amenableto mathematical treatment .
  except in exceptional cases, it is not possible to represent themotion of a viscous incompressible liquid by means of a variationprinciple, but all cases of such motion that have yet been discoveredbelong to this class of /exceptional cases ./  the appropriate functionsare given .
recently (see abstract 954 (1938)) goldstein made calculations basedon theories of vorticity transfer, of the distributions of velocity andtemperature in the turbulent wake behind a heated body of revolution,and the present authors now record an experimental determination ofthese distributions in a low-turbulence wind tunnel .  difficulty wasexperienced in obtaining a truly symmetrical wake and observationshave been reduced to mean values, curves of which are given .
the problem of the flow along a flat plateplaced edgewise to a steady stream,when a retarding pressure gradientvarying linearly as the distance xfrom the leading edge of the plateis superposed is discussed .  if y denotesdistance measured perpendicular tothe plate, a solution is obtained in theform of a power series in x wherecoefficients are functions of .  differentialequations are obtained for thesecoefficients .  seven of the coefficientshave been obtained with reasonableaccuracy, and the eighth and ninthroughly .  unfortunately it appearsthat about eight more terms arerequired to carry the solution tothe point of separation,. the workinvolved in their determination isprohibitive .  two approximate methodshave been developed for determiningthe error when the first seven termsof the series are used as an approximation .these methods lead to thedetermination of the point of separationand are in agreement as to itsposition .  if is the velocity at theedge of the boundary layer at theleading edge of the plate and is thevelocity gradient, separation is foundwhen .  a method isdeveloped for the solution of theboundary layer equations in any retarded region .it is obtained by replacingthe velocity distribution at the edgeof the boundary layer by a circumscribingpolygon of infinitesimal sides andapplying the preceding solutionto each of these sides, making themomentum integral continuous at eachvortex .  the problem is therebyreduced to the solution of a first orderdifferential equation .
  the general character of experimentalresults dealing with the effect ofshallow water on ship resistance may bestated briefly as follows ..--at lowvelocities the resistance in shallowwater is greater than in deep water, thespeed at which the excess is firstappreciable varying with the type of vessel .as the speed increases, the excessresistance increases up to a maximum at acertain critical velocity, and thendiminishes .  with still further increase ofspeed, the resistance in shallowwater ultimately becomes, and remains, lessthan that in deep water at the same speed .the maximum effect is the morepronounced the shallower the water .for further details and references onemay refer to standard treatises, but onequotation may be made in regard tothe critical velocity ..  /this maximumappears to be at about a speed suchthat a trochoidal wave travelling at thisspeed in water of the same depth isabout times as long as the vessel .it was at one time supposedthat the speed for maximum increasein resistance was that of the wave oftranslation .  this, however, holds onlyfor water whose depth is less thanfor greater depths the speed of thewave of translation rapidly becomesgreater than the speed of maximumincrease of resistance ./  in a recentanalysis of the data, h. m. weitbrechtexpresses a similar conclusion by statingthat for each depth of water there isa critical velocity, but that the criticalvelocity does not vary as the squareroot of the corresponding depth .
  the author studies the problem of finding the shape of asymmetrical nozzle with the velocity along the axis (x-axis)specified .  the velocity along each streamline is assumed toincrease steadily .  the singularity at the sonic velocity andto the axis of the nozzle) is first studied in the physicalplane by using a power series in .  in the hodograph plane,the two characteristics of the hodograph differential equationpassing through the sonic point and are linesof branch points .  the region between these lines is aregion of triple-valuedness for the stream function .  outsidethis region is single-valued .  there are also singularitiesat the sonic point and the point corresponding tothe specified condition at the exit of the nozzle .  the authorthen proposes to construct in the hodograph plane byat the exit velocity and (3) a finite sum regular throughout ..sin, where r is the square of the velocityand the are hypergeometric functions .  the a's arefixed by the required approximation to the specified velocitydistribution along the axis .  this solution is single-valued,convergent and represents except a region near the sonicpoint in the nozzle .  for this excluded region, the authorinverts the solution to obtain a power series in for 0 .  thisis shown to be convergent for the region of interest .  thetype of solution considered by the author gives a nozzlehaving an infinitely long supersonic part .
  charts are presented for determining complete temperaturehistorics in spheres, cylinders, and plates .  itis shown that for values of the dimensionless time ratiox greater than 0.2 the heating equations reduce to sucha simple form that for each shape two charts which givetemperatures at any position within the heated or cooledbodies can be plotted .  it is also shown that the usualsimple heating and cooling charts can also be used for thedetermination of temperatures and heating times inbodies heated by a constant rate of heat generation atthe surface (induction heating) .  finally, a two-dimensionalchart is given for finding heating times in shortcylinders, thereby eliminating the trial-and-error solutionthat is necessary when heating times are found fromthe present one-dimensional charts .
  this paper deals with the application of numericalmethods for the solution of heat-conduction problems,their generality being extended in the following ways ..may proceed most rapidly to a solution, or may proceedmore slowly and with greater precision,. (b) criteria aredeveloped for the choice of modulus to insure convergence .this is most important at a convective surface,. (c) amethod is developed for handling k and c when these propertiesvary independently with temperature .  a comprehensiveappendix gives the derivations, and the use ofequations and charts is demonstrated by typical examples.
approximate analytical solutions are presentedfor two-dimensional and axisymmetrichypersonic flow over blunt-nosed slender bodies whoseshapes follow a power law variation .  in particular,the body shape is given by where is thetransverse body ordinate, is the streamwise distancefrom the nose, and m is a constant in the range .both zero-order solutionsand first-order (small but nonvanishing valuesof solutions are presented, where m is thefree-stream mach number and is a characteristicbody or streamline slope .  the zero-order shock shapeis similar to the body shape for these flows .  thesolutions are found within the framework ofhypersonic-slender-body theory .  the limiting case m=1 corresponds to a wedgeor cone flow .  the limiting casecorresponds to a constant-energy flow .the latter cases are includedso that the present study may be applied to all flowswherein the zero-order shock shape is given bywith m in the range .  flowfields associated with shock shapes having values of moutside this range are also discussed .  for all valuesof, except m=1, certain portions of the flow fieldriolate the hypersonic-slender-body approximations,while other portions are consistent with these approximations.  for m=1, all portions of the flow fieldare consistent with the approximations .  the approximate solutions are found as follows .the asymptotic form of the flow in the vicinity of thebody surface is used as a guide to write approximateexpressions for the dependent variables .  theseexpressions exactly satisfy the continuity andenergy equations and contain arbitrary constantswhich are evaluated so as to satisfy boundary conditionsat the shock .  the approximate solutions donot satisfy the lateral momentum equation except atthe shock and (for the first-order problem) at the bodysurface .  the results of the approximate solutions arecompared with numerical integrations of the equationsof motion for various values of m and (ratioof specific heats) .  good agreement is noted, particularlywhen m and are both near one .  theshock is relatively close to the body for the lattercases .  sufficient results are presented to evaluatethe accuracy of the approximate method for variousvalues of m and .
  some 100 numerical computations have beencarried out for unyawed bodies of revolution withdetached bow waves .  the gas is assumed perfectwith .  free-stream mach numbersare taken as 1.2, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 6, 10, and .  theresults are summarized with emphasis on the sphereand paraboloid .
  simplified expressions describing the transferfrom a satellite orbit to the point of atmosphericentry are derived .  the expressions are limited toaltitude changes that are small compared with theearth's radius, and velocity changes small comparedwith satellite velocity .  they are further restrictedto motion about a spherical, nonrotating earth .  the transfer orbit resulting from the applicationof thrust in any direction at any point in an ellipticorbit is considered .  expressions for the errors indistance (miss distance) and entry angle due to aninitial misalinement and magnitude error of the deflectingthrust are presented .  the largest potential contributing factor towardsa miss distance stems from the misalinement of theretrovelocity increment .  if this velocity increment ispointed in direct opposition to the flight path, a 1misalinement leads to a miss distance of 34.5 miles .however, it is shown that this error can be avoidedby applying the velocity increment at an angle between120 and 150 below the flight-path direction .  the guidance and accuracy requirements to establisha circular orbit, in addition to the correctionsapplied to transform elliptic orbits into circularones, are also discussed .
  an analysis is presented of supercircular entryinto a planet's atmosphere giving particular attentionto the corridor through which spacecraft must beguided in order to accomplish various maneuvers .a dimensionless parameter based on conditions atthe conic perigee altitude is introduced for characterizingsupercircular entries and conveniently prescribingcorridor widths associated with elliptic,parabolic, or hyperbolic approach trajectories .  theanalysis applies to vehicles of arbitrary weight, shape,and size .  illustrative calculations are made forvenus, earth, mars, jupiter, and titan .  for nonlifting vehicles having fixed aerodynamiccoefficients, curves are presented of dimensionlessparameters from which can be calculated the maximumdeceleration, maximum rate of laminar convectiveheating, and total laminar heat absorbed duringsingle-pass entry at velocities up to twice circularvelocity .  for lifting vehicles, curves are presented ofthe maximum deceleration and overshoot boundaryof an entry corridor,. equations are presented forestimating laminar aerodynamic heating from themaximum deceleration .  it is shown that the corridorwidth is independent of vehicle weight, dimensions,and drag coefficient, provided these are the same atthe overshoot boundary as at undershoot .  thecorridors of certain planets can be broadened markedlyby the application of aerodynamic lift,. forexample, the 10-earth-g corridor width for singlepass,nonlifting, parabolic entry is increased fromto 52, 51, and 52 miles, respectively, by employing alift-drag ratio of 1 .  the use of aerodynamic liftdoes not increase appreciably the corridors of marsand titan .  all corridor widths decrease rapidlyas the entry velocity is increased .  terminal guidance requirements on accuracy ofvelocity and flight path angle for successfully enteringvarious corridors are compared with analogousrequirements for putting a satellite into orbit, forhitting the moon from the earth, and for achievingicbm accuracy .  consideration is given to theterminal guidance problem involved in using aplanet's atmosphere--rather than rocket fuel--toeffect orbital transfers from heliocentric to planetocentricmotion, thereby converting a hyperbolicapproach trajectory to an elliptic orbit about thetarget planet .  this fuel saving maneuver appearstechnologically feasible for certain planetary voyages,and implies the possibility of achieving a largereduction in required earth lift-off weight of chemicalpropulsion systems .
  the pair of motion equations for entry into aplanetary atmosphere is reduced to a single, ordinary,nonlinear differential equation of second order bydisregarding two relatively small terms and by introduringa certain mathematical transformation .  thereduced equation includes various terms, certain ofwhich represent the gravity force, the centrifugalacceleration, and the lift force .  if these particularterms are disregarded, the differential equation islinear and yields precisely the solution of allen andeggers applicable to ballistic entry at relatively steepangles of descent .  if all the other terms in the basicequation are disregarded (corresponding to negligiblevertical acceleration and negligible vertical componentof drag force), the resulting truncated differentialequation yields the solution of sanger for equilibriumflight of glide vehicles with relatively large lift-dragratios .  a number of solutions for lifting and nonliftingvehicles entering at various initial angles also havebeen obtained from the complete nonlinear equation .these solutions are universal in the sense that asingle solution determines the motion and heatingof a vehicle of arbitrary weight, dimensions, andshape entering an arbitrary planetary atmosphere .one solution is required for each lift-drag ratio .these solutions are used to study the deceleration,heating rate, and total heat absorbed for entry intovenus, earth, mars, and jupiter .  from theequations developed for heating rates, and fromavailable information on human tolerance limitsto acceleration stress, approximate conditions forminimizing the aerodynamic heating of a trimmedvehicle with constant lift-drag ratio are establishedfor several types of manned entry .  a brief studyis included of the process of atmosphere braking forslowing a vehicle from near escape velocity to nearsatellite velocity .
experiments have been conducted to measure inincompressible flow the local surface-shear stressand the average skin-friction coefficient for a turbulentboundary-layer on a smooth flat plate having zero pressure gradient .the local surface-shear stress was measured by a floating-element skinfrictionbalance and also by a calibrated total headtube located on the surface of the test wall . theaverage skin-friction coefficient was obtained fromboundary-layer velocity profiles . the boundary-layerprofiles were also used to determine the locationof the virtual origin of the turbulent boundary layer .data were obtainec for a range of reynolds numbersfrom 1 million to about 45 million with an attendantchange in mach number from 0.11 to 0.32 .   the measured local skin-friction coefficients obtainedwith the floating-element balance agreewell with those of schultz-grunow and kempffor reynolds numbers up to 45 million . themeasured average skin-friction coefficients agreewith those given by the schoenherr curve in theranges of reynolds numbers from 1 to 3 millionand 30 to 45 million . in the range of reynoldsnumbers from 3 to 30 million the measured valuesare less than those predicted by the schoenherr        curve .the results show that the /univeral skin-friction constants/proposed by coles appraoch asymptoticallya constant value at reynolds numbers exceedingmentioned constants and the limited reynoldsnumber range of the present investigation, there is some doubtas to the validity of any turbulentskin-friction law written on the basis of the presentresults . hence, no new friction law is proposed .   the frictional resistance of a flat plate wascalculated by means of the momentum method andalso the integrated measured local surface shear .for reynolds numbers from 14 million to 45 millionboth methods give about the same result,. whereasat lower values of reynolds number the momentummethod based on velocity profiles uncorrected forthe effects of turbulence results in a frictionalresistance as much as 4 percent higher than thatof the integrated shear .the measurement of local surface shear by acalibrated preston tube appears to be accurateand inexpensive . the calibration as given bypreston must be modified slighlty, however, to yield theresults obtained from the floating-element skin-frictionbalance .
  suitable forms of the equationsfor the flow of an inviscid, nonheat-conductinggas in which chemicalreactions are occurring are derived .the effects of mass diffusion and nonequilibriumamongst the internalmodes of the molecules are neglected .  special attention is given tothe speeds of sound in such a gasmixture and a general expression forthe ratio of frozen to equilibriumsound speeds is deduced .  an exampleis given for the ideal dissociatinggas .  the significance of the velocitydefined by the ratio of the convectivederivatives of pressure and density isexplained .  it is the velocitywhich exists at the throat of a convergentdivergentduct under maximummass flow conditions, and it is shown thatthis velocity depends on thenozzle geometry as well as on the 'reservoir' conditions .  as an illustration the phenomena ofsound absorption and dispersion arediscussed for the ideal dissociating gas .the results can be conciselyexpressed in terms of the frozen andequilibrium sound speeds, thefrequency of the (harmonic) soundvibration and a characteristic time forthe rate of progress of the reaction .
the equations for planar two-dimensionalsteady flow of an ideal dissociating gasare linearized, assuming small disturbancesto a free stream in chemicalequilibrium .  as an example of their solution, theflow past a sharp corner in a supersonicstream is evaluated and the variationsof flow properties in the relaxation zoneare found .  numerical illustrations areprovided using an 'oxygen-like' ideal gasand comparisons made with a characteristicssolution .  the flow past a sharpcorner can be studied in a conventionalshock tube and it may be possible toverify the present theory experimentally .in particular it may prove feasible touse the results to obtain a measure of thereaction rates in the gas mixture .
  the rate of energy transfer betweenparallel flat plates is evaluatedwhen the (stagnant) gas between them ispolyatomic with one inert internalmode .  deviations of the thermalconductivity from the complete equilibriumof the inert mode relaxation timeand the effectiveness of the walls inexciting or de-exciting this mode .the results are obtained via a lineartheory consistent with smalltemperature differences between the plates .  it is found that the eucken-valueof conductivity could be exceededif the relaxation times are non-zero andthe plates very effective inexciting the inert mode .  when relaxationtimes are very short the effectof the walls on the energy transfer rateis small, but the walls maketheir presence felt by distorting thetemperature profiles in /boundarylayers/ adjacent to the walls which areof order in thicknesstime) .  this result isanalogous to hirschfelder's (1956) for thecase of chemical reactions .  for experimental measurement ofconductivity in a hot wire cell typeof apparatus it is shown that extrapolationof measured reciprocalconductivities to zero reciprocal pressureshould load to the full euckenvalue .  it is also shown that the slope ofreciprocal apparent (measured)conductivity versus reciprocal pressurecurves is a function of relaxationtime as well as of the accommodationcoefficients .  it is quite possiblethat the relaxation effect here iscomparable with the temperature jumpeffects, even for rotation in diatomic molecules .
the flow induced by the sudden contact between a semi-infinite expanseof gas and a solid, initially at different temperatures, is examined onthe basis of a linear continuum theory .  for times large compared withthe mean time between molecular collisions in the gas, the velocityand pressure disturbances are found to be concentrated around a wavefront propagating out from the interface at the ambient isentropic soundspeed, whilst, near to the interface, these disturbances are small andthe gas temperatures are nearly equal to those predicted by the classicalconstant pressure heat conduction theory .the possible significance of these results in connection with reflectedshock wave techniques to measure high temperature gas properties iscommented upon .
  ideally, the reflection of a shockfrom the closed end of a shocktube provides, for laboratory study,a quantity of stationary gas atextremely high temperature .  becauseof the action of viscosity, however,the flow in the real case is not onedimensional,and a boundary layergrows in the fluid following the initial shock wave .  in this paper simplifying assumptionsare made to allow an analysisof the interaction of the shock reflectedfrom the closed end with theboundary layer of the initial shockafterflow .  the analysis predictsthat interactions of several differenttypes will exist in differentranges of initial shock mach number .it is shown that the cooling effectof the wall on the afterflowboundary layer accounts for the changein interaction type .  an experiment is carried out whichverifies the existence of theseveral interaction regions and showsthat they are satisfactorily predictedby the theory .  along with theseresults, sufficient informationis obtained from the experiments to makepossible a model for theinteraction in the most complicated case .this model is further verifiedby measurements made during the experiment .  the case of interaction with aturbulent boundary layer is alsoconsidered .  identifying the type ofinteraction with the state of turbulenceof the interacting boundarylayer allows for an estimate of thestate of turbulence of the boundarylayer based on an experimental investigationof the type of interaction .
  the profiles and thicknessesof normal shock waves of moderatestrength have been determinedexperimentally in terms of the variationof the equilibrium temperatureof an insulated transverse cylinder infree-molecule flow .  the shockwaves were produced in a steady state inthe jet of a low-density windtunnel, at initial mach numbers of 1.72and 1.82 in helium and 1.78,the shock thickness, determinedfrom the maximum slope of the cylindertemperature profile, varied frommean free path in the supersonicstream .  a comparison between the experimentalshock profiles and varioustheoretical predictions leads to thetentative conclusions that ..  (1)the navier-stokes equations are adequatefor the description of the shocktransition for initial mach numbers upto 2, and (2) the effects ofrotational relaxation times in air can beaccounted for by the introductionof a /second/ or /bulk/ viscosity coefficientequal to about two-thirdsof the ordinary shear viscosity .
  the aerodynamic problems associated with propulsion-systeminstallations have assumed a roleof vital importance in the development of supersonicaircraft .  although air-induction systems have receivedmoderate attention in the literature, considerably lessinformation can be found on the design and installationof turbojet exit nozzles .  this condition should not beinterpreted to indicate a lack of problems in jet-exitdesign .  as flight speeds reach supersonic levels, it becomesincreasingly difficult to achieve nozzle installationswhich are efficient over the entire speed range .  thedifficulties largely stem from the fact that the goals ofhigh jet thrust and low afterbody drag are not alwayscompatible .  in many of the compromise solutions, itis generally unsatisfactory to examine isolated nozzleand afterbody performance .  rather they must betreated as a unit, and the complex effects of jet interactionwith the external stream must be taken intoaccount .  to accomplish this, the nozzle and air-framedesigners must closely coordinate their efforts .  some of the aerodynamic problems of nozzle-afterbodycombinations are outlined in this report .  particularattention is devoted to the influence of the jetstreaminteraction on both nozzle thrust and afterbodydrag .  for this purpose, use is made of shockboundary-layer-interactionconcepts .  this approach,although not precise, correctly predicts many trendsand is generally enlightening .
  this report describes an experimental investigationof the factors affecting the base flow andjet structure behind a cylindrical after-body with a central nozzle .seven interchangeable nozzles were tested .six of these were convergent-divergent, with a design machnumber of 2.0, jet base diameter ratios rangingfrom 0.2 to 0.8 and nozzle divergence angles ranging fromconvergent with a jet base diameter ratio of 0.6 .  in the main experimental programme the free-streammach number was 2.0 and the boundary layer wasturbulent both on the after-body and in the nozzle .measurements were made of the base pressure, the surfacepressure distribution inside the nozzle, the overall thrustand the nozzle mass flow, over a range of jet pressures .this programme was supplemented by comparativetests with the jet exhausting into still air (static tests) .readings were taken of the internal nozzle pressuresand the jet thrust at different jet pressures .  schlierenphotography was used extensively throughout .  the results of the tests with external flow arepresented in the form of curves showing the separate effectsof jet pressure ratio, jet base diameter ratio, nozzledesign mach number and nozzle divergence angle on thebase pressure and overall thrust .  the special caseof base bleed is discussed separately .  similar curves areincluded for the static tests .  these show the effectof jet pressure ratio and nozzle geometry on the jet thrust .  a general method of correlating data on annularbase pressures is proposed and discussed .  essentially, thismethod compares the pressure on an annularbase with the calculated pressure on the correspondingtwo-dimensional base .  it correlates the presentresults reasonably well, but is less successful when appliedto more extensive data .
  an investigation has been conductedin the langley 9-inch supersonictunnel to determine the jet effects forvarying jet mach number and nozzledivergence angle upon the pressureon the base annulus of a model witha cylindrical afterbody .  the testswere conducted over a wide range ofjet static pressure ratios and at areynolds number of approximatelyfree-stream mach numbers of 1.62, 1.94,and 2.41 .  all testing was conductedwith an artificially induced turbulentboundary layer along the model .  in the lower range of jet staticpressure ratios, jet flow from asonic or supersonic nozzle affectedthe pressure acting on the base annulusin essentially the same manneras shown in naca rm e53h25 which coversjet static pressure ratios up to aboutpresent results showed that the basepressure tends to level off withincreasing jet static pressure ratio,and at the extreme static pressureratios reached in tests with sonicnozzles the base pressure began todecrease .  except in the lower rangeof jet static pressure ratios, nozzledivergence angle generally had alarger effect on the base pressuresthan nozzle mach number,. the increasein base pressure for a change indivergence angle from 0 to 10 wassmall compared to the increase whenthe divergence angle was changed fromand other data indicates that the effectsof divergence angle were reducedwhen the ratio of jet exit diameter to basediameter was decreased .  jetmach number effects increased with increase in stream mach number .
  systematic tests have been made at a machnumber of 1.6 on a family of static tubes .  the variableswhich have been investigated are the shape of the nose, thedistance of the holes downstream, and the inclination ofthe tube to the flow .  pressure measurements have also beenmade in the vicinity of a shock wave and close to a wall .
  this paper presents the results of an experimental investigationinto the effect of supersonic jets upon the base pressure of a bluffcylinder in a uniform subsonic flow .  the ratio of jet diameter to basediameter was 0.1875 .  jet stagnation pressures giving slight under-expansion of the jetcause an increase in the base pressure but for larger jet stagnationpressures the base pressure is again reduced .  a simple theory, based on a momentum integral, shows the dependenceof the base drag upon the jet and free stream speeds and upon thedimensions of the jet and the base .
axially-symmetrical, supersonic, fully-expanded jets of diameterabout 0.75 in. and of mach number 1.40 issuing into an atmosphereat rest were investigated by schlieren and shadow photography andby pressure traversing .  the development of the jets was found todepend critically on the strength of the shock waves in the core of thejet at the nozzle exit .  with strong shock waves present the jet spreadvery rapidly and was very unsteady .  the jet did in some cases break upinto large eddies of the same size as the diameter of the jet .  whenno disturbances were present in the core of the jet the spreadingwas far more gradual and the jet showed only slight unsteadiness .the turbulent mixing region of the first part of the jet with strongshock waves was investigated in detail by pitot tubes .  the firstinch was found to correspond to a two-dimensional half-jet .  thevelocity profiles were similar and well represented by the errorintegral .  the rate of spreading was only half the value forlow-speed flow .  by integrations across the mixing region theentrainment and the loss of kinetic energy were determined .these quantities were found to agree well with the values estimated byassuming an error-integral velocity profile .
  it is pointed out that, for shock mach numbers between 1 andthat the adjustments in the energy in all the degrees of freedomproceed slowly and in parallel and occur over a distance largecompared with the mean free path .  theoretical velocity profilesfor such shock waves are given and found to be in excellent agreementwith interferometric shock-tube observations .
  in the first part of theinvestigation an analysis is made of basepressure in an inviscid fluid,both for two-dimensional and axiallysymmetricflow .  it is shown thatfor two-dimensional flow, and also forthe flow over a body of revolutionwith a cylindrical sting attached tothe base, there are an infinitenumber of possible solutions satisfyingall necessary boundary conditionsat any given free-stream mach number .for the particular case of a bodyhaving no sting attached only onesolution is possible in an inviscidflow, but it corresponds to zerobase drag .  accordingly, it is concludedthat a strictly inviscid-fluidtheory cannot be satisfactory for practical applications .  since the exact inviscid-fluidtheory does not adequately describethe conditions of a real fluid flow,an approximate semi-empirical theoryfor base pressure in a viscous fluidis developed in a second part of theinvestigation .  the semi-empiricaltheory is based partly on inviscidflowcalculations, and is restrictedto airfoils and bodies without boattailing.  in this theory an attemptis made to allow for the effects ofmach number, reynolds number, profileshape, and type of boundary-layerflow .  the results of some recentexperimental measurements of basepressure in two-dimensional andaxially-symmetric flow are presented forpurposes of comparison .  someexperimental results also are presentedconcerning the support interferenceeffect of a cylindrical sting, andthe interference effect of a reflectedbow wave on measurements of basepressure in a supersonic wind tunnel .
  the governing equations of an incompressibleboundary layer over a flat plate in the presence of ashear flow with finite vorticity are derived .  for largevorticity, a similarity solution is obtained .  formoderate vorticity, one of the governing equationsis replaced by an approximate one for whichsimilarity solutions exist .
  problems on heat conduction in multilayer bodies lead usually to complicatedcalculations .  the present paper gives an idea of specificdifficulties arising in the case of infinite composite solides .general deductions are applied to a special class of questions .
  further experiments carried out in the 12-inch supersonic wind tunnelof the jet propulsion laboratory ofthe california institute of technologyto investigate the effect of threedimensionalroughness elements (spheres)on boundary-layer transition on a 10transfer are reported herein .  thelocal mach number for these tests wasminimum (effective) size of triprequired to bring transition to itslowest reynolds number varies as theone-fourth power of the distance fromthe apex of the cone to the trip .use of available data at other machnumbers indicates that the machnumber influence for effective trippingis taken into account by thesimple expression .
  an expression has been derived for the mass flow througha circular tube in free molecule flow when the tube and gas are inrelative motion .  the gas entering the tube is assumed to have amaxwellian distribution function and the molecular reflection processat the wall is assumed to be diffuse .  the theory has been used to determine the pressure readby an impact probe in free molecule flow .  although the generalexpressions derived apply to any value of gas velocity and tube size,the detailed calculations for the pressure probe are difficult exceptfor the case of low speeds and long tubes .  an experimental check of the theory has been carried outusing impact probes in a whirling arm apparatus and in the utia lowdensity wind tunnel .  agreement between theory and experiment isquite satisfactory .
  an investigation is made of theparameters to be satisfied for thermoaeroelasticsimilarity .  it is concludedthat complete similarity obtainsonly when aircraft and model are identicalin all respects, including size .  by limiting consideration toconduction effects, by assuming the majorload carrying parts of the structureare in regions where the flow is eitherentirely laminar, or entirely turbulent,and by assuming a specific relationshipbetween reynolds number and nusseltnumber, an approach to similarity canbe achieved for small scale models .experimental and analytical work isrequired to check on the validity of these assumptions .  it appears that existing hot windtunnels will not be completelyadequate for thermo-aeroelastic work, andaccordingly a possible layout forthe type of tunnel required is described .automatic programmed control ofthe tunnel would appear to be necessary .
a study is made of the advantages that can be realized in compressibleflowresearch by employing a substitute heavy gas in place of air .most heavy gases considered in previous investigations are either toxic,chemically active, or (as in the case of the freons) have a ratio ofspecific heats greatly different from air .  the present report is basedon the idea that by properly mixing a heavy monatomic gas with asuitable heavy polyatomic gas, it is possible to obtain a heavy gasmixture which has the correct ratio of specific heats and which isnontoxic, nonflammable, thermally stable, chemically inert, andcomprised of commercially available components .calculations were made of wind-tunnel characteristics for 63 gas pairscomprising 21 different polyatomic gases properly mixed with each ofthree monatomic gases (argon, krypton, and xenon) .  for a givenmach number, reynolds number, and tunnel pressure, a gas-mixturewind tunnel having the same specific-heat ratio as air would beappreciably smaller and would require much less power than acorresponding air wind tunnel .  analogous though different advantagescan be realized in compressor research and in firing-range research .the most significant applications, perhaps, arise through selecting andproportioning a gas mixture so as to have at ordinary wind-tunneltemperatures certain dimensionless characteristics which air atflight temperatures possesses but which air at ordinary wind-tunneltemperatures does not possess .  characteristics which involve the relaxationtime (or bulk viscosity), the variation of viscosity withtemperature, and the variation of specific heat with temperature fallwithin this category .  other applications arise in heat-transferresearch since certain gas mixtures can be concocted to have any prandtlnumber in the range at least between 0.2 and 0.8 .
  the problem of accurately predicting the pressure and wakeconfiguration at the base of bodies in supersonic flow is an extremelyimportant one inasmuch as a sizeable portion of the totaldrag of a given body may be attributable to the low pressure inthis region .  although a great deal of theoretical and experimentalwork has been done in this field, there does not yet exist a satisfactorymethod for accurate predictions .  this paper represents an excellent effort to experimentally confirmanalytically deduced concepts .  a large amount of experimentaldata on body shapes such as wedges, cones, and conecylindershas been obtained over a range of mach numbers up to 4 .the data are thoroughly discussed with respect to analytical deductions.  on the basis of the evidence accumulated it is concludedthat the boundary-layer thickness has only a small effecton the base pressure for axisymmetric bodies and for twodimensionalbodies when the base height-to-chord ratios are ofthe order .  reviewer believes this report is a significant contribution in thefield of base pressure and wake flow phenomena .
experimental and theoretical research has been conducted onflow separation associated with steps, bases, compression corners,curved surfaces, shock-wave boundary-layer reflections, and configurationsproducing leading-edge separation . results wereobtained from pressure-distribution measurements, shadowgraphobservations, high-speed motion pictures, and oil-filmoptics . the maximum scope of measurement encompassedmach numbers between 0.4 and 3.6, and length reynoldsnumbers between 4000 and 5000000 .   the principal variable controlling pressure distribution inthe separated flows was found to be the location of transitionrelative to the reattachment and separation positions . classificationis made of each separated flow into one of three regimes ..and /turbulent/ with transition upstream of separation .by this means of classificaiton it is possible to state ratherliteral results regarding the steadiness of flow and the influenceof reynolds number within each regime .for certain pure laminar separations a theory for calculatingdead-air pressure is advanced which agrees well with subsonicand supersonic experiments . this theory involves no empiricalinformation and provides an explanation of why transition locationrelative to reattachment is important . a simple analysisof the equations for interaction of boundary-layer and externalflow near either laminar or turbulent separation indicates thepressure rise to vary as the square root of the wall shear stressat the beginning of interaction . various experiments substantiate tnisvariation for most test conditions . an incidentalobservation is that the stability of a separated laminar mixinglayer increases markedly with an increase in mach number .the possible significance of this observation is discussed .
   in the first part of the investigation an analysis is made ofbase pressure in an inviscid fluid, both for two-dimensional andaxially symmetric flow . it is shown that for two-dimensionalflow, and also for the flow over a body of revolution with acylindrical sting attached to the base, there are an infinitenumber of possible solutions satisfying all necessary boundaryconditions at anh given free-stream mach numger . for theparticular case of a body having no sting attached only onesolution is possible in an inviscid flow, but it corresponds tozero base drag . accordingly, it is concluded that a strictlyinviscid-flow theory cannot be satisfactory for practical applications.   an approximate semi-empirical analysis for base pressurein a viscous fluid is developed in a second part of the investigation. the semi-empirical analysis is based partly on inviscid-flowcalculations . in this theory an attempt is made to allowfor the effects of mach number, reynolds number, profile shape,and type of boundary-layer flow . some measurements of basepressure in two-dimensional and axially symmetric flow arepresented for purposes of comparison . experimental resultsthen are presented concerning the support interference effectof a cylindrical sting, and the interference effect of a reflectedair wave on measurements of base pressure in a supersonic wind tunnel .
  measurements of base pressure are presented for 29 blunttrailing-edgewings having an aspect ratio of 3.0 and variousairfoil profiles .  the different profiles comprised thicknessratios between 0.05 and 0.10, boattail angles between --2.9and 20, and ratios of trailing-edge thickness to airfoil thicknessbetween 0.2 and 1.0 .  the tests were conducted at mach numbersof 1.25, 1.5, 2.0, and 3.1 .  for each mach number, the reynoldsnumber and angle of attack were varied .  the lowest reynoldsnumber investigated was 0.2 x 10 and the highest was 3.5 x 10 .measurements on each wing were obtained separately withturbulent flow and laminar flow in the boundary layer .  spanwisesurveys of the base pressure were conducted on severalwings .  the results with turbulent boundary-layer flow showed onlysmall effects on base pressure of variations in reynolds number,airfoil profile shape, boattail angle, and angle of attack .  theprincipal variable affecting the base pressure for turbulent flowwas the mach number .  at the highest mach number investigated(3.1), the ratio of boundary-layer thickness to trailingedgethickness also affected the base pressure significantly .  the results obtained with laminar boundary-layer flow tothe trailing edge showed that the effect of reynolds number onbase pressure was large .  in all but a few exceptional casesthe effects on base pressure of variations in angle of attack andin profile shape upstream of the base were appreciable thoughnot large .  the principal variable affecting the base pressurefor laminar flow was the ratio of boundary-layer thickness totrailing-edge thickness .  for a few exceptional cases involving laminar flow to thetrailing edge, the effects on base pressure of variations in profileshape, boattail angle, and angle of attack were found to beunusually large .  in such cases the variation of base pressurewith angle of attack was discontinuous and exhibited a hysteresis.  stroboscopic schlieren observations at a mach numberof 1.5 indicated that these apparently special phenomena wereassociated with a vortex trail of relatively high frequency .
  in the earlier attempts at finding the jump conditionsacross a hydromagnetic shock wave (1, 2, 3)various simplifying assumptionsregarding the shape of the shock and thedimensions and the character of themotion are made .  from that analysis itis possible to write down the jumpconditions in a higher degree of generality (4) .  the shock conditions for magnetohydrodynamicflows can, however, bederived in their full generality with the helpof the transport equation as used bythomas (5) in the derivation of shock conditionsin conventional gas dynamics .  the purposes of this paper are ..cover the present more general case .that every flow and field quantitydownstream from the shock wave isexpressible separately in terms ofthe known values of these quantitiesupstream from the shock wave .in this rearranged form of the equations,various effects of the shockwave can be easily read off .the shock conditions along the samelines as in conventional gas dynamics .
  in the flow past a slender delta wingat incidence can be observed aroughly axially symmetric core of spirallingfluid, formed by the rolling upof the shear layer that separates from aleading edge .  the aim in thisreport is to predict the flow field withinthis vortex core, given appropriateconditions at its outside edge .  the basic assumptions arecore .in addition it is assumed that the flowis axially symmetric and incompressible .together, these admit outer and innersolutions for the core from the equationsof motion .  for the outer solution the sub-coreis ignored, and the flow is taken tobe inviscid (but rotational) and conical .the resulting solution consists ofsimple expressions for the velocity componentsand pressure .  for the innersolution, which applies to the diffusivesub-core, the flow is taken to belaminar, and approximations, some based onthe boundary conditions and someanalogous to those of boundary layer theory,are made .  the solution obtainedin this case is a first approximation, and ispresented in tabular form .  a sample calculation yields resultswhich are in good qualitative andfair quantitative agreement with experimental measurements .
  a similar solution of the hypersonic viscous flow past slender bodiesof revolution is deduced for a special case when the radial coordinateof the body surface at section x is proportional to x, where the radialcoordinate have the comparable order value with the thickness of theboundary layer .  here, /similar/ is used in the direct meaning thatdistributions in the boundary layer keep the similar form lengthwise .calculations are accomplished for the region of strong interaction betweenthe boundary layer and the shock wave .  from several calculationsit may be expected that if the thickness of the body becomes small, thethickness of the layer in which the longitudinal velocity component u israpidly decreased also becomes small, and in the major part of theboundary layer, only the normal component v is increased .  further ifthe thickness of the body is increased, then, the height of the shockwave, the pressure on the wall, and the shear stress at the wall arealso increased while the boundary layer thickness is decreased .  thenose region is excluded by the reason that the ordinary boundary layertheory will be invalid there .
steady flow about curved airfoils at high supersonic speeds isinvestigated analyticially . with the assumption that air behavesas a diatomic gas, it is found the the shock-expansionmethod may be used to predict the flow about curved airfoils up toextremely high mach numbers, provided the flow deflectionangles are not too close to those corresponding to shock detachment. this result applies not only to the determination of thesurface pressure distribution, but also to the determination of thewhole flow field about an airfoil . verification of this observationis obtained with the aid of the method of characteristics byextensive calculations of the pressure gradient and shock-wavecurvature at the leading edge, and by calculations of the pressuredistribution on a 10-percent-thick biconvex airfoil at 0 angle ofattack .an approximation to the shock-expansion method for thinairfoils at high mach numbers is also investigated and is foundto yield pressures in error by less than 10 percent at machnumbers above three and flow deflection angles up to 25 . thisslender-airfoil method is relatively simple in form and thus mayprove useful for some engineering purposes .effects of caloric imperfections of air manifest in disturbedflow fields at  high mach numbers are investigated, particularattention being given to the reduction of the ratio of specificheats . so long as this ratio does not decrease appreciably belowto include the effects of these imperfections, should be substantiallyas accurate as for ideal-gas flows . this observation is verfiedwith the aid of a generalized shock-expansion method and ageneralized method of characteristics employed in forms applicablefor local air temperatures up to about 5000 rankine .the slender-airfoil method is modified to employ an averagevalue of the ratio of specific heats for a particular flow field .this simplified method has essentially the same accuracy forimperfect-gas flows as its counterpart has for ideal-gas flows .an approximate flow analysis is made at extremely high machnumbers where it is indicated that the ratio of specific heats mayapproach close to 1 . in this case, it is found that the shock-expansionmethod may be in considerable error,. however, thebusemann method for the limit of infinite free-stream machnumber and specific-heat ratio of 1 appears to apply withreasonable accuracy .
  in this report a theory of thin airfoils of small camber isdeveloped which permits either the velocity distribution correspondingto a given airfoil shape, or the airfoil shape correspondingto a given velocity distribution to be calculated .  theprocedures to be employed in these calculations are outlined andillustrated with suitable examples .
after a rather complete exploratory programdescribed in previous papers, the photothermoelasticmethod was applied to theexperimental evaluation of the thermal-stresstheories .  the new technique was correlatedwith several theories which analyzed thetransient thermal stresses in idealized wingstructures of high-speed aircraft .  varioustheories were investigated which representedthe same idealized wing models and differedfrom each other only in the simplifyingassumptions regarding the temperaturedistributions in skin and webs .  the theorieswere evaluated by duplicating the boundaryand initial conditions on plastic models andthen by correlating the theories with the observedfringe orders in nondimensional form .a significant general conclusion wasreached after correlating the available theoriesand experimental results .  owing tosimplifying assumptions concerning the thermalbehavior in the flanges, thermalstresses predicted by the available theories are allhigher than the experimental observation.  in some cases the discrepancy is as great as 30 per cent .
  a simple picture, known from the work of i. lotz, of the flow overthe forward part of a body of revolution in oblique flow is derivedhere from entirely elementary considerations .  the pressure at anypoint of the (forward part of the) body at any angle of incidencedepends on three parameters whose values vary along the body .  thevariation of these parameters along the body can be determined from arelatively small number of wind tunnel or water tunnel measurements .the necessary water tunnel measurements have been made for four axiallysymmetric head shapes .  additional measurements have been made toillustrate the theoretical conclusions .  the data for each head shapeare adequate for a determination of the pressure coefficient at anypoint on the head shapes at any angle of incidence (up to 6, say) .in particular they can be used to determine the peak suction at anyangle of incidence and so the conditions for the onset of cavitationon the head .
  this paper presents the results of an investigation conducted inthe langley 16-foot transonic tunnel to determine the effects of varyingreynolds number on the pressure distribution on a transonic body ofrevolution at angles of attack through the transonic speed range .  theeffect of a change in sting cone angle on the pressure distributionsand a comparison of experimental incremental pressures with theory isalso included .  the models were tested through a mach number range from 0.60 to 1.09 .the reynolds number range based on body length was from 9 x 10 to 39 xdiameter was 1.3 x 10 to 4.53 x 10 for the model at 8 angle of attack .  an increase in reynolds number from 9 x 10 to 39 x 10 affectedthe longitudinal pressure distributions very slightly .  these effectswere of such a nature as to cause an increase of 0.05 in the normalforcecoefficient of the body when tested in the subcritical cross-flowreynolds number range .  this increase is in agreement with theoreticalapproximations .  a comparison between experimental and theoretical values of theincremental pressure coefficient due to angle of attack indicated goodagreement except at angles where separated flow areas existed over thebody .  the effect of a change in sting-cone angle from 5 to 9 on thepressure distribution of the 120-inch model was negligible up to amach number of 1.05 .  at this mach number the effect was to cause asmall increase in the velocity over the rear of the body .
  an investigation has been conducted in the langley propellerresearchtunnel to study cowling-spinner combinations basedon the naca 1-series nose inlets and to obtain systematicdesign data for one family of approximately ellipsoidal spinners .in the main part of the investigation, 11 of the related spinnerswere tested in various combinations with 9 naca open-nosecowlings, which were also tested without spinners .  the effectsof location and shape of the spinner, shape of the inner surfaceof the cowling lip, and operation of a propeller having approximatelyoval shanks were investigated briefly .  in addition, astudy was conducted to determine the correct procedure forextrapolating design conditions determined from the low-speedtest data to the design conditions at the actual flight machnumber .  the design conditions for the naca 1-series cowlings andcowling-spinner combinations are presented in the form ofcharts from which, for wide ranges of spinner proportions andrates of internal flow, cowlings with near-maximum pressurerecovery can be selected for critical mach numbers ranging fromspinners and the effects of the spinners and the propeller onthe cowling design conditions are presented separately toprovide initial quantitative data for use in a general designprocedure through which naca 1-series cowlings can beselected for use with spinners of other shapes .  by use of thisgeneral design procedure, correlation curves established fromthe test data, and derived compressible-flow equations relatingthe inlet-velocity ratio to the surface pressures on the cowlingand spinner, naca 1-series cowlings and cowling-spinnercombinations can be designed for critical mach numbers ashigh as 0.90 .
  measurements have been made of the directtwo-dimensional damping and stiffness derivatives for ain incompressible flow .  corrections arising from the apparatus are discussed andreference is made to an attempt to measure the directtab derivatives .  the effects are shown of frequency parameter, amplitude ofoscillation, reynolds number, aileron angle and positionof transition on the wing .  variation with frequency parameter is substantially thesame as for vortex-sheet theory and variation of amplitudeproduces little change in both derivatives .  at the lowestreynolds number there is little change in both derivativeswith variation of aileron angle for the condition of naturaltransition, but at higher reynolds numbers the stiffnessderivatives increase at .  a forward movement of transition reduces the stiffnessderivatives at the smaller aileron angles, but at,at the lowest reynolds number, an increase results .  similar trends are observed for the damping derivatives above .  comparison with vortex-sheet theory shows that themeasured values of the stiffness and dampingderivatives are approximately 0.6 of the theoretical values .  measurements have been made of the directtab derivatives and cross aileron-tab derivatives for aper cent aileron and 4 per cent (approx.) tab .  in additionsome measurements of the direct aileron derivatives have beenmade for comparison with earlier results together with anumber of static derivatives for the wing and controls .  the influence is shown of frequency parameter, reynoldsnumber, position of transition, mean tab angle and sealingof the control hinge gaps .  some tests have been made withthe ailcron set at minus 8 deg and the tab at plus 12 degfor which condition the hinge moment on the aileron was zero .  reasonable agreement with the values given by the /equivalentprofile/ theory is shown for both direct dampingderivatives and for the direct tab stiffness derivative .  the directaileron stiffness derivative shows some departure fromthe theoretical value when .  at and the natural transition, comparisonwith the values given by flat-plate theory gives thefollowing approximate factors, where suffix denotes thetheoretical values ..
  the lift, pitching moment and full-spanconstant-chord control hinge-moment are derived for a croppeddelta wing describing harmonic plunging and pitchingoscillations of small amplitude and low-frequency parameter ina supersonic air stream .  it is assumed that (a) the winghas subsonic leading edges, (b) the wing is sufficiently thinand the mach number sufficiently supersonic to permit theuse of linearised theory .  expressions for the various derivative coefficients areobtained for a particular delta wing of aspect ratio 1.8 andtaper ratio these are avaluated and tabulated for machnumbers 1.1, 1.15, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6 and 1.944 .
  a solution to second order in thickness is derived for harmonicallyoscillating two-dimensional airfoils in supersonicflow .  for slow oscillations of an arbitrary profile, the result isfound as a series including the third power of frequency .  forarbitrary frequencies, the method of solution for any specificprofile is indicated, and the explicit solution derived for a singlewedge .  nonlinear thickness effects are found generally to reduce thetorsional damping, and so to enlarge the range of mach numberswithin which torsional instability is possible .  this destabilizingeffect varies only slightly with frequency in the range involvedin dynamic stability analysis, but may reverse to astabilizing effect at high flutter frequencies .  comparison witha previous solution exact in thickness suggests that nonlineareffects of higher than second order are practically negligible .  the analysis utilizes a smoothing technique that replacesthe actural problem by one involving no kinked streamlines .this stratagem eliminates all consideration of shock wavesfrom the analysis, yet yields the correct solution for problemsthat actually contain shock waves .
  the term flutter is used here to denote maintained orviolent oscillations of a structure due to aerodynamic forcesacting in conjunction with both elastic and inertial forces .attention is restricted to this particular branch of the moregeneral field of aeroelasticity, which embraces buffeting,divergence, and reversal of control, as well as flutter,. airscrewflutter is not specifically considered .  the monograph isdivided into three main parts, each of which has been madeself-contained for the convenience of readers .  in the first part, general methods for the investigationof aircraft flutter, by theoretical analysis and by experimentson flutter models, are set out and discussed .  a detailedaccount of the aerodynamic theory of wings in non-uniformmotion is not included, since this has already been providedelsewhere, but methods for the evaluation of the aerodynamicforces required in a theoretical flutter analysis are logicallydeveloped, and a bibliography of researches on the aerodynamictheory is given in the appendix .  investigationson specific types of aircraft flutter--namely wing flutter,control surface flutter, and tab flutter--are discussed in partthese various types of flutter are considered, but the practicaldetails of flutter-prevention devices are omitted .  finally,in part 3, methods for the experimental determination ofairloads on oscillating aerofoil systems are described, andavailable airload measurements are analysed and comparedwith theoretical results .  an attempt has been made to refer in the text to all relevantbritish work reported by the early part of 1947 .  foreignwork has been mentioned in parts 1 and 2 only where necessaryfor the sake of completeness, but in part 3 and theappendix all relevant foreign references known to the author havebeen included .  matrix notation has been used for the theoretical treatment inpart 1, but otherwise its use has been avoided .
  the polygon method of woods is used tocalculate the velocity distribution over a number of twodimensionalaerofoils at low incidence, subcritical flows onlybeing considered .  lift slopes and aerodynamic centresat zero lift are also calculated .  some comparisons with experimental results are made, andthese show good agreement at zero incidence .
  estimates of the variation withmach number of the aerodynamiccharacteristics of swept wings are madeon the basis of airfoil sectiondata combined with span-loading theory .the analysis deals with examinationsof some 26 wings and wing-bodycombinations ranging in sweepangle from 30 to 60 and for machnumbers between 0.6 and 1.0 .  results of the study indicatethat the two-dimensional section dataafford good qualitative informationfor such high-speed aerodynamiccharacteristics as the variation withmach number of drag, zero-liftpitching-moment coefficient, and liftcoefficient for flow separation .quantitative estimates of the forceand moment divergence mach numberscould not be made with any degree ofcertainty from the airfoil dataalone .  somewhat improved quantitativeestimates for a given configurationwere obtainable by basing theestimates on the measured characteristicsfor a wing of similar plan formbut different section, and adjustingfor the effects of differences insection on the basis of section data .
  an investigation has been made of the possibility of correlatingairfoil section data with measured pressure distributions over a 45sweptback wing in the mach number range from 0.50 to 0.95 at a freestreamreynolds number of approximately 2 million .the wing had an aspect ratioof 5.5, a taper ratio of 0.53, naca 64a010 sections normal to thequarterchord line, and was mounted on a slender body of revolution .  at mach numbers of 0.85 and below, and for wing normal-force coefficientsbelow the maximum normal-force coefficient for an infiniteaspect-ratiowing yawed 45 to the flow (derived from airfoil sectiondata by simple sweep relations), good correlation was obtained over mostof the wing between wing-section and two-dimensional-airfoil pressuredistributions .  for greater normal-force coefficients lateral boundarylayerflow permitted the inboard wing sections to rise to high maximumsection normal-force coefficients .  the effectiveness of this lateralboundary-layer flow disappeared towards the tip .  for all mach numbers,the influence of plan-form effects on the pressure distributions limitedthe quality of the correlation at the 20- and 95-percent-semispanstations .  above a mach number of about 0.85 the shock waves originatingat the juncture of the body and the wing trailing edge spread overthe span, preventing further application of two-dimensional data .  the spanwise load distributions at moderate normal-force coefficientscould be predicted from span-loading theory for the entire mach numberrange of the tests .
  this paper sets out the method now used by the author ofapplying the polygon method to the calculation of the compressiblesubsonic flow round two-dimensional aerofoils .  tables have beenconstructed which can be used for all aerofoil shapes, putting thepolygon method on the same footing numerically as goldstein'smethod has the advantage over approximation 3 that it can be applied inthe following cases which are beyond the scope of goldstein's method ..conventional aerofoils, (b) the low-speed flow about very thickaerofoils, e.g., in reference 3 it is applied to circular cylinders, (c)the flow about symmetric aerofoils between either straight or constantpressure walls, (d) flow in asymmetric channels,and (e) more difficult problemsof the flow about aerofoils in the presenceof one or two constrainingwalls (to be published) .  a method ofcalculating lift and momentcoefficients, and their rates of changewith incidence (a) is alsogiven in the paper .  as an example the velocity distribution and the rates ofchange of the lift and moment coefficients with a are calculated forthe aerofoil r.a.e.104 at values of m (mach number at infinity) of 0,and 0.7, for various values of the incidence, a .  the velocitydistributions for zero incidence are found to be in fair agreement withthe corresponding experimental results .  the results at incidence arein satisfactory agreement with the experimental results, not for thesame incidence, but for the same lift coefficient .  it is found, forexample, that at m = 0.7 the theory for a = 0.8 agrees bestwith experiment for a = 1.0, when the lift coefficients areapproximately the same .
  this is an account of an investigation in which oscillationswere discovered in the laminar boundary layer along a flat plate .these oscillations were found during the course of an experimentin which transition from laminar to turbulent flow was beingstudied on the plate as the turbulence in the wind stream wasbeing reduced to unusually low values by means of dampingscreens .  the first part of the paper deals with experimentalmethods and apparatus, measurements of turbulence andsound, and studies of transition .  a description is then givenof the manner in which oscillations were discovered and howthey were found to be related to transition, and then how controlledoscillations were produced and studied in detail .  theoscillations are shown to be the velocity variations accompanyinga wave motion in the boundary layer, this wave motion havingall the characteristics predicted by a stability theory based onthe exponential growth of small disturbances .  a review of thistheory is given .  the work is thus experimental confirmationof a mathematical theory of stability which had been in theprocess of development for a period of approximately 40 years,mainly by german investigators .
  the electrical conductivity of an ionizedgas is anisotropic in the presenceof magnetic field (hall effect) .the conductivity is expressed bya tensor in the same form for both fullyand partially ionized gases .  bythe use of modified ohm's law andconventional magnetohydrodynamicalequations the incompressible viscousflow between parallel plates underthe transverse magnetic field is analyzedand an exact solution is obtainedwhen the magnetic reynolds numberis small .  the numerical resultsreveal a remarkable effect of anisotropyof conductivity .  the accelerationand deceleration of viscous ionizedgas under combined electric andmagnetic fields are also calculated .
  at high speeds the turbulent boundary layer washing theairplane fuselage excites appreciable skin vibration, promoting strongnoise in the interior .  the fluctuating exciting pressure distributioncan be represented as a pattern of moving waves (fourier integral) .a running ripple in the skin follows underneath each wave, and the noiseis ultimately due to these ripples .  the acoustic effects of the running ripples are calculatedfor an infinite sheet,. this is considered the main result of thepaper .  supersonically moving ripples radiate strong sound in the formof mach waves,. subsonically moving ripples radiate no sound .  formulasfor the mean square surface pressure and the energy flux are obtainedfor an assumed idealized turbulent pressure spectrum .  the results are adapted to provide a tentative estimate ofthe noise generated at subsonic speeds in a practical fuselage .  therunning ripples are almost noise-free, but multiple reflections at theframes and stringers promote standing waves .  an assumption is usedto link the two kinds of waves, and this leads to provisionalcalculations of noise level ..  on this basis the noise level ispredicted to vary as for thin boundary layers, changingprogressively to for thick layers ( = external airdensity, = speed, = layer thickness, = panel thickness) .  somecomparisons are made with experiment .  finally, an idea forminimizing the noise is presented .
  it was realized as early as 1909 that a propeller in yawdevelops a side force like that of a fin .  in 1917, r. g. harrisexpressed this force in terms of the torque coefficient for theunyawed propeller .  of several attempts to express the sideforce directly in terms of the shape of the blades, however, nonehas been completely satisfactory .  an analysis that incorporatesinduction effects not adequately covered in previous workand that gives good agreement with experiment over a widerange of operating conditions is presented herein .  the presentanalysis shows that the fin analogy may be extended to the formof the side-force expression and that the effective fin area maybe taken as the projected side area of the propeller .  the effectiveaspect ratio is of the order of 8 and the appropriate dynamicpressure is roughly that at the propeller disk as augmented bythe inflow .  the variation of the inflow velocity, for a fixedpitchpropeller, accounts for most of the variation of side forcewith advance-diameter ratio v nd .  the propeller forces due to an angular velocity of pitch arealso analyzed and are shown to be very small for the pitchingvelocities that may actually be realized in maneuvers, with theexception of the spin .  further conclusions are ..  a dual-rotating propeller in yawdevelops up to one-third more side force than a single-rotatingpropeller .  a yawed single-rotating propeller experiences apitching moment in addition to the side force .  the pitchingmoment is of the order of the moment produced by a force equalto the side force, acting at the end of a lever arm equal to thepropeller radius .  this cross-coupling between pitch and yawis small but possibly not negligible .  the formulas for propellers in yaw derived herein (with theexception of the compressibility correction) and a series ofcharts of the side-force derivative calculated therefrom have beenpresented without derivation in an earlier report .
  manufacturing and maintainance of ideally sharp leading edgesand noses is practically impossible, hence a discrepancy arisesbetween the theory established for sharp edges and actual flowaround slightly blunted edges, where a detached shock is formedwith a subsonic adjacent region .  semi-empirical method is workedout showing that the pressure distribution in the vicinity of theleading edge is the same for different thin profiles having the sameshape of bluntness on their edges or noses .  the data for a flatplate can be used for all of them .  for moderate supersonic speedthe pressure on the remaining body is practically unaffected by thenose bluntness, and can be computed from a sharp-edge theory .for high supersonic speed a slight blunting of the edge can considerablyalter the pattern of flow over a large region .  the methodconsists in replacing blunted edge by action of concentratedforces on the flow,. it is applied to blunted wedge where it showsdoubling of the drag computed by classic theory, and to cones,where the drag of a blunted cone may become smaller than that ofa sharp one .
  in special circumstances where a large workoutput is required from a turbine in a single stageit is necessary to use high pressure ratios across thenozzle blades, thus producing supersonic velocities atinlet to the rotor .  as part of an investigation into suchturbines, several designs for the inter-blade passages ofthe rotor have been tested in a two-dimensional tunnel,a design theory being developed concurrently .  the first design, featuring constant passage widthand curvature as in steam-turbine practice, but havingthin leading and trailing edges, was found to suffer fromfocusing of the compression waves from the concavesurface, with consequent flow separation from theopposite convex surface .  it gave a velocity coefficient ofmeasured at an inlet mach number of 1.90 and turningangle of 140 deg .  the measured value compares favourablywith values from previous steam tests, where theresults have been in the range from 0.65 to 0.92 .  from theoretical reasoning, and from additional testobservations, a subsequent passage was designedhaving an inlet transition length of small curvature, leadingto a free-vortex passage of double the transitioncurvature,. a small amount of contraction was incorporated .schlieren photographs showed the flow in thispassage to be almost shock free .  a thin region of low-energyair existed close to the convex surface, but liquidinjectiontests located only one small bubble of reversed flow .pressure traverses at exit indicated a velocitycoefficient of 0.952, based on the area-mean total pressure .when allowance is made for turning angle andreynolds number this result appears to compare quite favourablywith previous work .  it would seem that the optimum blade pitching in a turbinewould be about 20 to 30 per cent closer than in atwo-dimensional cascade .  however, the resultant pitchingtends to become very close, except at very largeturning angles, with the result that in some applicationsdifficulties could arise in the practical design andmanufacture .  several uncertainties remain and the present design must be regardedas still experimental .
  an investigation has been conductedat the national gas turbine establishment into theperformance of turbines having high pressure ratiosper stage .  the present report discusses the mode ofoperation of supersonic nozzles for such turbines,and describes a cascade experiment .  both theory andexperiment demonstrate that the conditions imposedupon the supersonic flow immediately downstreamof the nozzles (e.g., by a following row of rotor blades)exert an overriding influence upon the nozzle outletflow angle, and hence upon the maximum pressureratio obtainable across the nozzle--providing that theaxial component of velocity is subsonic .  this is animportant difference from the more familiar flow ofsubsonic turbine nozzles, where, for example, thedownstream gas angle is controlled predominantly by thenozzle blade shape and spacing .  a suitable test techniqueusing a closed-jet tunnel is demonstrated .  the particular nozzles tested, of convergent-divergentform, had a straight-sided divergent portion ofto axial direction) and a design mach number of 2 .the flow was found to be well behaved as regards shockpattern, losses, and starting over the range of pressureratios tested--between 9 1 and 19 1 .  in particular theefficiency at the design pressure ratio of 16.6 1 washigh, the velocity coefficient calculated from traverses ofpitot and static tubes being 0.98 .  for the conversion of pitot to total pressure at a machnumber of 2.5 a high accuracy is important in themeasurement of the static pressure,. nevertheless readingsfrom a conventional four-hole instrument appear tobe reliable .
  to facilitate the development of high speed axial-flow compressors,an investigation was made into the possibility of measuring blade performancein a stationary cascade at supersonic speeds .  a suitabletechnique was developed and the losses in a variety of cascades weremeasured, but these losses were too high for the blading to have anypossible application .  it was concluded that if a useful compressor isto result, it is essential to test the cascades at mach numbers close tothe existing technique was suitable only for zero incidence tests, andthus a new approach is necessary .  some of the fundamentals of this cascade testing at low supersonicspeeds are discussed in the light of the current understanding of themode of operation of supersonic compressors at transonic speeds .
  a blade design for a highly loaded two-stageturbine is described and the test performance ofthe turbine is presented .  some of the factors affecting the performance and matchingof turbine blade rows operating at supersonicgas velocity are discussed and investigated by means of testson a three-dimensional nozzle cascade tunneland on a variety of single-stage turbine builds .
  an investigation has been made to explore the possibilities ofaxial-flow compressors operating with supersonic velocities intothe blade rows .  preliminary calculations showed that veryhigh pressure ratios across a stage, together with somewhatincreased mass flows, were apparently possible with compressorswhich decelerated air through the speed of sound in theirblading .  the first phase of this investigation, which has beenreported in naca acr l5d20, was the development of efficientsupersonic diffusers to decelerate air through the speed of sound .the present report is largely a general discussion of some of theessential aerodynamics of single-stage supersonic axial-flowcompressors .  in the supersonic flow about isolated bodies,large energy losses usually occur due to wave systems whichextend far from the bodies .  supersonic flow entering a cascadeis considered and, in this case, the possibility of entirely eliminatingthis extended wave system is demonstrated,. thus, noreason for supersonic compressors to be necessarily inefficientis apparent .  the conditions that occur as the flow through thecompressor is being started are discussed and a hypothesis asto the type of transonic flow which will be encountered isproposed .  as an approach to the study of supersonic compressors, threepossible velocity diagrams are discussed briefly .  because ofthe encouraging results of this study, an experimental singlestagesupersonic compressor has been constructed and tested infreon-12 .  in this compressor, air decelerates through thespeed of sound in the rotor blading and enters the stators atsubsonic speeds .  a pressure ratio of about 1.8 at an efficiencyof about 80 percent has been obtained .
  the present report describes a new method for the predictionof the flow pattern of a gas in the two-dimensional and axiallysymmetrical case .  it is assumed that the expansion of the gas isadiabatic and the flow stationary .  the several assumptionsnecessary on the nozzle shape effect, in general, no essentiallimitation on the conventional nozzles .  the method is applicablethroughout the entire speed range,. the velocity of sound itselfplays no singular part .  the principal weight is placed on thetreatment of the flow near the throat of a converging-divergingnozzle .  for slender nozzles formulas are derived for the calculationof the velocity components as function of the location .
  the intensity of turbulence, the longitudinal and lateral correlationcoefficients, and the spectra of turbulence in a 3.5-inchdiameterfree jet were measured with hot-wire anemometers atexit mach numbers from 0.2 to 0.7 and reynolds numbers from  the results of these measurements show the following ..  (1)near the nozzle (distances less than 4 or 5 jet diam downstreamof the nozzle) the intensity of turbulence, expressed as percentof core velocity, is a maximum at a distance of approximatelyincreasing mach and or reynolds number .  at distances greaterthan 8 jet diameters downstream of the nozzle, however, themaximum intensity moves out and decreases in magnitude untilthe turbulence-intensity profiles are quite flat and approachingsimilarity .  (2) the lateral and longitudinal scales of turbulenceare nearly independent of mach and or reynolds numberand in the mixing zone near the jet vary proportionally withdistance from the jet nozzle .  (3) farther downstream of thejet the longitudinal scale reaches a maximum and then decreasesapproximately linearly with distance .  (4) near the nozzle thelateral scale is much smaller than the longitudinal and does notvary with distance from the centerline, while the longitudinalscale is a maximum at a distance from the centerline of aboutmum moves out from the centerline .  (6) a statistical analysisof the correlograms and spectra yields a /scale/ which, althoughdifferent in magnitude from the conventional, varies similarlyto the ordinary scale and is easier to evaluate .
  the spatial distribution of noise sources along a jet isinvestigated by application of lighthill'stheory to regions of 'similar'profiles .  the analysis refers to thenoise power emitted by a 'slice' ofjet (section between two adjacent planesnormal to the axis) as a functionof distance x of the slice from the nozzle .it is found that this poweris essentially constant with x in the initialmixing region (x law), thenfurther downstream (say 8 or 10 diametersfrom the nozzle) falls offextremely fast (x law or faster) in thefully developed jet .  becauseof this striking attenuation of strengthwith distance, it is concluded thatthe mixing region produces the bulk ofthe noise and must dominate inmuffler behavior,. conversely, the 'fat'part of the jet must contributemuch less to the total noise power than is commonly supposed .  powell's experiments on the effects of nozzle velocity profileon total noise power are interpretedqualitatively .  the behavior ofmultiple-nozzle or corrugated mufflers,both as to overall quieting andfrequency-shifting, is also interpretedin the light of the results .  thepossibility emerges that such mufflersmay be improved without seriousthrust loss by the addition of a sound-attenuating shroud .
a large proportion of the current research programme of thedepartment of aeronautics and astronautics is concerned with thestudy of jet noise and boundary layer pressure fluctuations andtheir effect on aircraft structures .  early in the work it wasdecided that for a complete description of the random processesinvolved it would be necessary in the experimental programme tomake correlation measurements in addition to the more standardspectrum and amplitude distribution measurements .  it was alsofelt that it would be desirable from the university point of viewto construct a general purpose correlator which could later beused on other types of work .  to this end it was decided to givethe correlator a wider bandwidth than might strictly have beennecessary for the problems on hand .  subsequent development workhas amply justified this decision .
  this paper is concerned with the designof annular supersonic nozzles to produce uniformflow in supersonic wind tunnels which are axi-symmetricaland which have an internal coaxial circular cylinderthroughout .  symmetrical two-dimensional and conventionalaxi-symmetrical nozzles are special cases ofannular nozzles .  proposals are made for design criteria sufficient toensure that the flow inside a nozzle is free from limitlines and shock waves,. the criteria for (symmetrical)two-dimensional and (conventional) axi-symmetricalnozzles are new .  the two outstanding procedures fordesigning two-dimensional and axi-symmetrical nozzlesare generalised to apply to annular nozzles .  one of thedesign procedures is mainly analytical and the other ismainly numerical,. the analytical expressions in bothprocedures are made much more complicated by thepresence of the internal cylinder but the numerical processcriteria and the mainly numerical design procedure aresuccessfully applied to the design of a particularannular nozzle .
  a low speed investigation of the flow over a 40 apex angle deltawing with sharp leading edges has been made in order to ascertaindetails of the flow in the viscous region near the leading edge of thesuction surface of the wing .  a physical picture of the flow wasobtained from the surface flow and a smoketechnique of flow visualization,combined with detailed measurements of totalhead, dynamic pressure, flowdirections and vortex core positions in the flow above the wing .  surface pressure distributions were also measured and integratedto give normal force coefficients .  the results of this investigation were compared with those of otherexperimental investigations and also with various theoretical results .in particular, the normal force coefficients, vortex core positions andattachment line positions were compared with the theoretical results ofmangler and smith, reference 19 .  it was found that ..exist on the upper surface of the wing outboard of and belowthe main vortices .  these secondary vortices are formed as aresult of separation of the boundary layers developing outboardof the top surface attachment lines .
  existing theories for the stanton tube arecritically reviewed, and the paper then outlines asimple method which predicts the calibration functionat high reynolds numbers to the right order ofmagnitude .
  a formula for the velocity field in terms of a given surface distributionof vorticity is applied to pointslying on the surface .  an equationgiving the shape of a quasi circularcylindricalsurface in terms of a prescribedloading is derived .  as anexample a half ring wing with prescribedloading is discussed .
  to help fill the gap in the knowledgeof aerodynamics of shapesintermediate between bodies of revolutionand flat triangular wings, forceand moment characteristics for ellipticcones have been experimentallydetermined for mach numbers of 1.97 andsectional axis ratios from 1 through 6and with lengths and base areasequal to circular cones of finenessratios 3.67 and 5 have been studiedfor angles of bank of 0 and 90 .elliptic and circular cones in combinationwith triangular wings of aspectratios 1 and 1.5 also have been considered.  the angle-of-attack rangewas from 0 to about 16, and thereynolds number was 8x10, based onmodel length .  in addition to theforces and moments at angle of attack,pressure distributions for ellipticcones at zero angle of attack have been determined .  the results of this investigationindicate that there are distinctaerodynamic advantages to the use ofelliptic cones .  with their majorcross-sectional axes horizontal, theydevelop greater lift and have higherlift-drag ratios than circular conesof the same fineness ratio and volume .in combination with triangular wingsof low aspect ratio, they also develophigher lift-drag ratios than circularcones with the same wings .  forwinged elliptic cones, this increasein lift-drag ratio results both fromlower zero-lift drag and drag due tolift .  visual-flow studies indicatethat, because of better streamliningin the crossflow plane, vortex flowis inhibited more for an elliptic conewith major axis in the plane of thewing than for a circular cone with thesame wing .  as a result, vortexdrag resulting from lift is reduced .shifts in center of pressure withchanges in angle of attack and machnumber are small and about the sameas for circular cones .  comparisons of theoretical andexperimental force and moment characteristicsfor elliptic cones indicatethat simple linearized (flat plate)wing theory is generally adequate evenfor relatively thick cones .  zeroliftpressure distributions and dragcan be computed using van dyke'ssecond-order slender-body theory .for winged circular cones, a modificationof the slender-body theory ofnaca rep. 962 results in good agreementof theory with experiment .
  lift, drag, and pressure distribution of a triangularflat plate moving at a small incidence at supersonicspeeds are given for arbitrary mach number and aspect ratio .the values obtained for lift and drag are compared withthe corresponding values obtained by strip theory .  thepossibility of further applications of the analysis leading upto the above results is indicated .
  the curve of drag against mach number for straight-edged wings,calculated by using the linearised theory of supersonic flow, displaysdiscontinuities in slope at the various mach numbers for which the edgesare sonic .  these features, which are not observed in practice, are dueto the fact that linearised theory predicts an infinite pressure alonga subsonic or sonic edge .  it is shown that if the linearised equationof supersonic flow is used to determine the flow over straight-edgedwings, but the linearised boundary condition is replaced by the fullplaced by plausible values .  on this basis a simple method is derivedfor improving the linearised predictions of the drag of straight-edgedwings which exhibits satisfactory agreement with experimental results .  while the technique is not directly applicable to ridge lines, anartifice renders them amenable to similar treatment .
this paper is concerned with a theoretical investigation of the flowfield at large distances from an object moving through a viscous fluid .the discussion will be restricted to the case of two-dimensionalstationary incompressible flow .  the object will be assumed to be offinite size .  the domain of the fluid is infinite and it is assumedthat there are no other boundaries for the fluid except that of thegiven object .  the reynolds number will be assumed to have a fixedvalue., thus we shall not consider the limiting cases of the reynoldsnumber tending to zero or to infinity .
  the interference between the wings and the tail surfaces of acombination of circular body, low aspect ratio cruciform wings andcruciform tail in an inviscid flow is analysed using the slender bodytheory .  the system may be subjected to both incidence and yaw and,in general, the tail fins may be staggered angularly with respect tothe main wings .  the method is a development of that used by owen and maskell inr.a.e. report no. aero.2441 to analyse similar effects on a system setat zero yaw .  simple expressions to determine the strengths and positions ofthe trailing vortices (supposed to be rolled-up) downstream of the mainwings are given, and from them the forces on the tail are deduced .when the tail surfaces are triangular and of low aspect ratio an exactsolution is obtained from slender body theory ..  but for rectangulartail surfaces of moderate or high aspect ratio, it is suggested that thechanges in lift and sideforce on the tail caused by the wing vortexfield can be estimated approximately from the mean upwash and sidewashangles evaluated over the respective tail spans .  formulae for thesemeans angles are presented .
  an approximate method of predicting the interference betweenthe wings and the tailplane of a slender wing-body-tailplane combinationin an inviscid flow is developed, in order to explain the changein centre of pressure position with incidence which has been found tooccur in wind tunnel and flight tests on guided weapons .  incidencechanges in one plane only, normal to the plane containing the wingsand the tail surfaces, have been considered .  the method is based on slender body theory and the assumptionthat the wing trailing vortices roll-up completely before they reachthe tailplane,. it is, therefore, applicable to weapons equipped withlow aspect ratio wings far separated from the tail surfaces .  whenthe tail surfaces are triangular and of low aspect ratio, an analyticalsolution is given for the effect of the wing downwash field onthe tail lift .  for high aspect ratio, rectangular tail surfaces itis suggested by comparison with experimental data, that the tail liftmay be estimated approximately from the value of the mean downwashangle across the tail span .  a summary of the method is given in para.5 which, in conjunctionwith the introduction, may be read independently of the rest of thereport .
  calculation of second-order supersonic flow past bodies of revolutionat zero angle of attack is described in detail, and reduced toroutine computation .  use of an approximate tangency condition is shownto increase the accuracy for bodies with corners .  tables of basicfunctions and standard computing forms are presented .  the procedure issummarized so that one can apply it without necessarily understandingthe details of the theory .  a sample calculation is given, and severalexamples are compared with solutions calculated by the method ofcharacteristics .
  the accuracy and range of applicability of the linearized theory,second-order theory, tangent-cone method, conical-shock-expansion theoryand newtonian theory for predicting pressure distributions on pointedbodies of revolution at zero angle ofattack are investigated .  pressuredistributions and integrated pressuredrag obtained by these methods arecompared with standard values obtainedby the method of characteristicsand the theory of taylor and maccoll .three shapes, cone, ogive, and amodified optimum body, are investigatedover a wide range of finenessratios and mach numbers .  it is found that the linearizedtheory is accurate only at low valuesof the hypersonic similarity parameternumber to body fineness ratio) and thatsecond-order theory appreciablyextends the range of accurate application .the second-order theory givesgood results on ogives when the ratio ofthe tangent of maximum surfaceangle to the tangent of the mach angleis less than 0.9 .  tangent-conemethod cannot be widely applied withgood accuracy .  in general, theconical-shock-expansion theory predictspressure and drag within engineeringaccuracy when the hypersonic similarityparameter is greater than 1.2 .although newtonian theory gives good accuracy,except for cones, at thehighest values of the hypersonic similarityparameter investigated, it isless accurate than the conical-shock-expansion theory .
  this report investigates the wave drag of bodiesof revolution with pointed or open-nose forebodiesand pointed or truncated afterbodies .  the 'quasi-cylinder'and 'slender-body' theories are reviewed, a reversibilitytheorem is established, and the concept of the interferenceeffect of a forebody on an afterbody is introduced .  the theories are applied to bodies whose profiles are eitherstraight or parabolic arcs, formulae and curves beinggiven for forebody and afterbody drag, and for the interferencedrag .  the results of the two theories are comparedand are seen to agree well in the region of geometries where boththeories are applicable .
  a second-order shock-expansionmethod applicable to bodies of revolutionnear zero lift is developed .expressions defining the pressures onnoninclined bodies are derived by theuse of characteristics theory incombination with properties of the flowpredicted by the generalizedshock-expansion method .  this result isextended to inclined bodies toobtain expressions for the normal-forceand pitching-moment derivativesat zero angle of attack .  the method isintended for application underconditions between the ranges of applicabilityof the second-order potentialtheory and the generalized shock-expansionmehtod - namely, when theratio of free-stream mach number to nose finenessratio is in the neighborhoodof 1 .  for noninclined bodies, the pressuredistributions predicted by thesecond-order shock-expansion method arecompared with existing experimentalresults and with predictions of othertheories .  for inclined bodies, thenormal-force derivatives and locationsof the center of pressure at zeroangle of attack predicted by the methodare compared with experimentalresults for mach numbers from 3.00 to 6.28 .fineness ratio 7, 5, and 3cones and tangent ogives were tested aloneand with cylindrical afterbodiesup to 10 diameters long .  in general, thepredictions of the present methodare found to be in good agreement with theexperimental results .  for noninclinedbodies, pressure distributionspredicted with the method are ingood agreement with existing experimentalresults and with distributionsobtained with the method of characteristics .for inclined bodies, thenormal-force derivatives per radian (fornormal-force coefficients referencedto body base area) are predictedwithin 0.2 and the locations ofthe center of pressure are predictedwithin 0.2 body diameters .  on thebasis of these results, the secondordershock-expansion method appearsapplicable for values of the ratioof free-stream mach number to nosefineness ratio from 0.4 to 2 .
  a fourier analysis of the linearised theory expression for thezero-lift wave drag of a smooth, slender body in terms of its crosssectionalarea distribution is usedto derive the area distribution whichminimises the expression for givenlength, volume, nose area, base areaand n intermediate areas .  anotherminimal deduced from this by relaxingthe restriction on volume is used toevolve a method for the numericalevaluation of the original expression .  two practical applications of theseresults are discussed .  the firstis in the design of wing-body combinationsto have small drag rise attransonic speeds .  the second is in thecalculation of the wave drag ofwing-body combinations at zero lift,.an example is constructed to illustratethe method and to give an indication of its accuracy .
  when gases flow at high velocity, the ratesof internal processes may not be fast enough to maintainthermodynamic equilibrium .  by definingquasi-equilibrium in flow as the condition in whichthe temperature, pressure, density, and velocitydeviate by less than a fixed, small percentage fromwhat they would be if the flowing gas could actuallybe in thermodynamic equilibrium, criteria arederived for determining whether quasi-equilibriumis a stable condition in the flow .  by use of excitationof molecular vibration as an example, thegeneral properties of criteria curves are discussed andinterpreted .  a discussion is given of how to usethese results to determine definitely whether a flowis or is not in thermodynamic equilibrium .applications to dissociating gases, to mixtures, and tothe phenomenon of /choking/ in a laval nozzleare given special consideration .  for cases whenapplication of the criteria predict nonequilibrium,equations are provided in a form useful for numericalforward integration along streamlines .
the routine testing of aircraft-type compressors.dash in the main,axial-flow, multi-stage compressors.dash requires a compromise betweenresearch accuracy and the practical considerations .  this test codeis the outcome of a survey of compressor testing techniques andinstrumentation, initiated and subsequently discussed and endorsedby the aerodynamics sub-committee of the gas turbine collaborationcommittee .the code aims at defining methods of measurement and weighting wherebycompressor performance can be obtained sufficiently accuratelyfor a realistic and direct comparison to be made between one compressorand another .  the measurement of a quantity at a point in the fluidflow, and the averaging and weighting of such measurements have beentreated separately as far as is possible .the recommendations are given in the main text, whilst additionaldiscussion on these is put into the appendices .
  reasons for enquiry--to provide a standard instrument forthe calibration of low speed anemometers .
  a new static tube and a new pitot-static tube have been designed andcalibrated in the no.1 and the no.2 11 ft x 8 ft wind tunnels of ther.a.e., using a long static tube, the error of which is believed to bevery small, as a standard for comparison .  the results show that the static pressure measured by these tubesis in error due to the supporting strut and to the nose shape of thetube by an amount which may be calculated for positions of the staticslot, or holes, greater than 10 tube diameters ahead of the strut .  thereadings show no measurable scale effect in the speed range 100-230 ftsec .  the static tube is insensitive to yaw in the range 1 with asquare-edged slot and is even less sensitive to yaw when the slot edgesare rounded .  the turbulence of the tunnel has an effect on the staticpressure reading .
    the flow field analyzed consists of a thin, constant pressureviscous mixing layer separated from a solid surface by an enclosedregion of low-velocity air (/dead air/) . the law of conservation ofenergy is employed to relate calculated conditions within theseparated mixing layer to the rate of heat transfer at the solid surface. this physical speed is applied to laminar separations incompressible flow for various prandtl numbers, including considerationof the case where air is injected into the separated region  .application to turbulent separations is made for a prandtl number ofunity in low-speed flow without injection .all calculations are for the case of zero boundary-layer thickness atthe position of separation .     for laminar separations the differential equations for viscous flowat arbitrary mach number are solved for the enthalpy and velocityprofiles within the thin layer where mixing with dead air takes place .results are presented in tabular form for prandtl numbers between 0.1and 10  . the rate of heat transfer to a separated laminar region in airlaminar boundary layer having the same constant pressure . injectionof gas into the separated region is calculated to have a powerful effectin reducing the rate of heat transfn  to the wall  . it is calculatedthat a moderate quantity of gas injection reduces to zero the heattransfer in a laminar separated flow .
  a theoretical analysis is made of the constant pressurelaminar mixing process between a stream having an initial boundary layervelocity profile, and a fluid at rest .  the present theory follows the methods of w. tollmien ands. i. pai with certain modifications .the results apply to incompressibleflow, but can be extended to the compressible case without difficulty .
  an approximate theory of the base pressure in two-dimensional flowat supersonic speeds is presented using asimplified representation ofthe flow and some of the findings of tollmien's work on turbulent mixingin incompressible flow .  good qualitative predictions of the effects ofa boundary layer, of bleed air and of boat-tailing are obtained .
  the free turbulent mixing of a supersonic jet of mach numberof which a description is given, was used for the investigation .density and velocity distributions through the mixing zonehave been obtained .  it was found that there was similarityin distribution at the cross sections investigated and that, inthe subsonic portion of the mixing zone, the velocity distributionfitted the theoretical distribution for incompressible flow .it was found that the rates of spread of the mixing zone bothinto the jet and into the ambient air were less than those ofsubsonic jets .
and rapid method by which boundarylayer flow was rendered visible has beenpreviously described in the journal of the royalaeronautical society .  it gave promise ofbeing useful at the highest tunnel speeds provideda denser smoke could be obtained, which atthe same time was free from the troublesome depositsassociated with the wood smoke .of the aerodynamics division attempts were madeby the fuel research station to improve thedensity of the wood smoke and to reduce thedeposits .  these they showed were conflictingrequirements, and whilst some improvementwas effected, it was not sufficient for observationin the new tunnels at high speeds .  the staff of the director-general of scientificresearch and development, ministry of supply,was then approached and it was decided todevelop an oil smoke generator from a simplegenerator of this type which was demonstratedto us .  this has been done successfully .the final apparatus in contrast to the wood smokegenerator is light and compact .  it takesonly a few minutes to start and can be run as long as desired .improvement on the wood smoke both as regardsdensity and freedom from deposits, which causepremature transition .  the density and qualityof the smoke are now under control .  smokesranging from a light smoke of bluish white colourto a heavy smoke dense white in appearancecan be obtained .  the oil smoke retains theadvantages of the wood smoke in that it is noncorrosiveand non-irritant, and the smell can betolerated even when it is present in a considerableconcentration .  a certain amount of condensationis inevitable with oil smokes, but with suitableprecautions troubles arising from this can beavoided .  a dry solid smoke made by melting ahard wax was successfully generated with thesame apparatus .  unfortunately because of itsflocculent nature this smoke gave rise to soliddeposits when passed through bore tubing,leading eventually to complete blockage .  thisseems to be a feature of solid smokes .  the apparatus has been used to determinetransition and laminar separation points on modelwings in a number of the national physicallaboratory tunnels .  smoke filaments have beenmaintained in the laminar state up to windspeeds of 180 ft. sec. in the new tunnels .  there is much to be said for making a standardpractice of visualising boundary layer flow onmodels, particularly as the technique is simple andrapid .  it would greatly assist the interpretationof force measurements and the more detailedexplorations of the boundary layer by totalhead tubes and hot wires .  the use of oil smoke is not limited toboundary layer flow visualisation .  the apparatusdescribed in this report would seem to beparticularly suited for educational work in smalldemonstration tunnels .
  this paper presents the results of the first part of anexperimental investigation of the ground effect on simple jet flapaerofoils .  in this part of the work an aerofoil having a 58.1 deg jetflap was tested under two-dimensional conditions .  the pressure lift on the aerofoil was measured, with the groundat fixed positions, for varying jet momentum coefficients .  it wasfound that the effect of the ground on the pressure lift was very smallup to a certain critical jet coefficient .  on increasing the jetcoefficient beyond the critical value a marked loss of pressure lift wasobserved .  this critical value referred to is approximately the same asthe jet coefficient at which the jet first hits the ground .  some significant, though highly tentative comments, are maderegarding the practical application of this work to the take-offcharacteristics of a jet flapped aircraft .
  the report describes an investigation intothe design of minimum drag tip fins by lifting line theory .  thework is based on an exact solution of the conformaltransformation which is applicable to this problem following themethod of trefitz .  three types of solution are treated,corresponding to symmetrical upper and lower fins, singleupper or lower fins, and unequal upper and lower fins .a representative range of solutions for circulation distributionalong wing and fins has been calculated for each of thethree cases by the use of elliptic and theta functions .  a detailed account is given, with examples, of theprocedure for calculating the plan of wing and fins, the lift andinduced drag, and the setting of the fins .
  the method of expressing the velocity incrementover aerofoils directly in terms of the section ordinateswings of finite aspect ratio .  the wings considered areuntapered in plan-form but may be tapered in thickness .the section can be of any given shape so that in this sensethe analysis is more general than that of refs. 3 to 6 whichdeal with wings of biconvex section .  the coefficients required in the calculation are tabulatedfor the centre-section of straight and swept-back wingsof aspect ratios 0.5,. 1,. 2,. and 4, the wing of infiniteaspect ratio having beentreated in ref. 1 .  the remaining calculations can be madevery quickly .  since wings of very small aspect ratio can be treated also bythe method of slender-body theory, the relations betweenlinear theory, slender-body theory, and linearised slender-bodytheory are discussed .  for the special case of ellipsoids,the results obtained from the various methods are comparedwith the exact solution .
an integral expression, given by lighthill and basedon linearized theory, for the externalsupersonic flow over the surface of slender pointedor ducted bodies of revolution at zeroangle of attack is shown to give a good approximationof the exact flow for a much wider machnumber and thickness range than could be expected fromlinearized theory .  a numerical method,based on this expression, is developed and applied fordigital computing .  some results fromapplying the digital computing procedure for determiningthe pressure distribution and wavedrag for various bodies of revolution are given .
  in order to determine the velocity distributionabout an arbitrary aerofoil, it is necessary to evaluatethe functions and (in the notation of aerofoil theory)when is given numerically .  if the values of are specifiedat 2n points equally spaced about the circle into which theaerofoil is transformed, the formulae obtained here may beused to calculate these functions at the same points .formulae are also given for calculating the integrals of or,since these have application to the design of aerofoils bythwaites's numerical method .  the simplicity of the formulae for and enablesthe effect on the velocity distribution of a local change of shapereadily to be determined by making n large .  this isdiscussed in 3 .  the formulae are collected in the appendix, and a tableof the coefficients for the case n = 20 is given .
  the linearised theory of thin wings is used to calculate pressuredistributions over delta wings with rhombic cross sections .  a deuceprogramme has been written for the calculation and some of the resultsare compared with those of slender thin wing theory .
  a collection has been made oftheoretical data, for wings alone, onthose stability derivatives that governthe short-period oscillation ofaircraft travelling at supersonic speeds .all the derivatives availablehave been obtained by means of the lineartheory, and so the informationgiven is subject to the usual limitations .the information has beenpresented in what is hoped is the mostconvenient form to show its extent,and to expose the parts of the fieldwhere experimental investigation ismost needed .
details are given of a programme of tests being made on similar sweptwingmodels in transonic tunnels of different types .  force measurementresults at subsonic speeds in the r.a.e. 3 ft. by 3 ft. slotted tunnelshow only small interference effects for models of moderate blockageat low incidence., at higher incidences, the interference effect onlift becomes appreciably greater than estimated by theory, andsignificant pitching moment differences occur, apparently due to wallinterference on the wing flow field .  comparable but smaller effectsare evident in the results from the a.r.a. 9 ft. by 8 ft. perforatedtunnel .  at speeds just above m = 1, the force fluctuates as speedis increased, because of wave reflection interference .  the magnitudeof the fluctuations diminishes as speed is further increased and thisreduction is more marked in the perforated tunnel .  pressuremeasurements along the top of the body at zero incidence show delay inshock movements at high subsonic speeds indicating a blockage effecton speed., the effect is larger in the perforated tunnel thoughsmaller than predicted by theory .  above m = 1, both expansion andshock waves are strongly reflected in the slotted tunnel butconsiderable alleviation, particularly of shock waves, is achievedin the perforated tunnel, for which an analysis of the effects isgiven, showing for example, the effect of the open-area distribution ofthe walls .
  the whitham-walkden theory for the estimation of the strengthof shock waves at ground level from aircraft flying at supersonicspeeds is applied to the case of a typical projected supersonic civiltransport aeroplane .  if a figure of 2 lb sq.ft. (including a factor of 2 for groundreflection) is taken as an upper limit for the acceptable strength ofthe bow wave from such an aircraft it is shown that restrictions onthe climb and flight plan will be involved .  the advantage of theemployment of larger engines with or without afterburning is discussed,with reference also to the penalties involved owing to the increase inweight of the aircraft and its direct operating costs .  finally it is suggested that an aircraft of given volume could bedesigned, by suitable choice of thickness and lift distribution, tominimise the strength of the shock waves in the far field .
  available data on the effects of suction and injection on skinfriction are summarised and compared .  it is shown that injection into a turbulent boundary layer canproduce a skin friction coefficient lower than the laminar value at thesame reynolds number on an impermeable plate .
  if over the 'outer region' of the boundary layer, where the meanvelocity varies but little from its value outside the shear layer, avirtual eddy viscosity is defined, which is constant over the outerregion but varies in the direction of the mainstream, a solution of theturbulent boundary layer equations can be found which satisfies theappropriate boundary conditions .  the solution leads to a compatibilitycondition for the virtual eddy viscosity in terms of the wall shearstress, the boundary layer momentum thickness and the mainstreamvelocity, at least for the case of a constant external velocity .  thiscompatibility condition, which can be expressed asfor moderate to high reynolds numbers, where is the shear velocity,is the boundary layer thickness and is the virtual eddy (kinematic)viscosity, is just the condition townsend (1956) found for theequilibrium of the large eddies .  the numerical value of the constantderived by townsend agrees with ours for reynolds numbers (based on x)of about .  with this relation for an equation, analoguous to themomentum integral equation solution, can be found for as a function oflocal freestream velocity, with one disposable parameter .
  an experimental study has been made at mach numbers from 1.6 to 2.0 ofthe interaction between the turbulentboundary layer on a side wall of a windtunnel and the shock wave produced bya plate mounted on the wall .  underthese conditions the shock wave boundarylayer interaction was threedimensional at least over the regioninvestigated (up to 10 boundary layerthicknesses from the plate) .  it wasfound that the boundary layer was separatedby a shock wave of strengthtype occur on the sides of fuselages atthe wing fuselage junction and maytherefore be important with regard to thedesign of waisted shapes .
  the reynolds equations of motion of turbulent flow ofincompressible fluid have been studied for turbulentflow between parallel plates .  the number of these equationsis finally reduced to two .  one of these consists ofmean velocity and correlation between transverse andlongitudinal turbulent-velocity fluctuations only .the other consists of the mean pressure and transverseturbulent-velocity intensity .  some conclusions aboutthe mean pressure distribution and turbulent fluctuationsare drawn .  these equations are applied to two specialcases ..  one is poiseuille flow in which both plates areat rest and the other is couette flow in which one plate is atrest and the other is moving with constant velocity .  themean velocity distribution and the correlation canbe expressed in a form of polynomial of the co-ordinate inthe direction perpendicular to the plates, with the ratioof shearing stress on the plate to that of the correspondinglaminar flow of the same maximum velocity as a parameter.  these expressions hold true all the way across theplates, i.e., both the turbulent region and viscous layerincluding the laminar sublayer .  these expressions forpoiseuille flow have been checked with experimental dataof laufer fairly well .  it also shows that the logarithmicmean velocity distribution is not a rigorous solution ofreynolds equations .
based on prandtl's mixing-length mechanism, the pressureequation for turbulent flow inslider-bearing lubrication is derived .  an analyticalsolution is given and compared withthe one for laminar flow .  it is found that the turbulenteffect increases the pressure andconsequently, the load-carrying capacity .  however, thepower loss also increases .
  the thermodynamic properties (z = pv rt, e rt, h rt, s r,and pressure) are given for equilibrium mixtures of dissociated andionized molecules and atoms of the elements nitrogen and oxygenhaving the low temperature composition of .78847 n and .21153 o .the tabulated properties of this mixture (a close approximation tothe properties of air) are given at close intervals from 2000 toand 10 times the normal density .  the results are based on chemicalequilibria between the species o, o, n, n, no, no, no,no, o, o, o, o, n, n, n and electrons .  the method ofpresentation permits later corrections for the effect of argon and coand the contribution of intermolecular forces .  the calculations arebased on 9.758 e.v. as the dissociation energy of molecular nitrogenand 1.45 e.v. as the electron affinity of atomic oxygen .
  a review is made of existing literature concerned withthe analytical investigation of the velocity and temperaturedistributions in the boundary layers of a heated (orcooled) flat plate .  the plate is postulated infinitely thinand is parallel to a uniform fluid stream .  the more recentsolutions include the combined effects of frictionaldissipation and variable fluid properties .  only the resultspertaining to the transfer phenomena occurring at theplate surface are included, i.e., skin drag and over-allheat transfer,. the individual temperature and velocitydistributions leading to these results are omitted .
  experiments on axi-symmetric boundarylayers along a long cylinder were made especiallyto investigate the effect of transversecurvature on the velocity profile .  laminarvelocity profiles were measured and comparedwith theoretical ones with good accuracy .a representative profile was plotted to see theeffect of transverse curvature, which showedsmall, but obvious effect accompanied byincreasing skin friction .  the transition of the flow from laminar toturbulent was observed, and its reynoldsnumber was estimated to occur at 1.2 1.8x10in the present experiment .  the turbulentprofile was also measured and plotted by usingthe coordinates to express the wall lawdeduced by richmond, from which it wasestimated that, as the ratio of the momentumthickness to body radius increases, the profilenear the outer layer tends to bend downrelative to the line of logarithmic wall law .
this paper was written early in 1941and circulated to the civil defence researchcommittee of the ministry of home securityin june of that year .  the present writerhad been told that it might be possibleto produce a bomb in which a very largeamount of energy would be released bynuclear fission--the name atomic bomb hadnot then been used--and the work heredescribed represents his first attempt to forman idea of what mechanical effects mightbe expected if such an explosion could occur .in the then common explosive bomb mechanicaleffects were produced by the suddengeneration of a large amount of gas at a hightemperature in a confined space .  thepractical question which required an answerwas ..  would similar effects be producedif energy could be released in a highlyconcentrated form unaccompanied by thegeneration of gas .qm  this paper has nowbeen declassified, and though it has beensuperseded by more complete calculations,it seems appropriate to publish it as it wasfirst written, without alteration, except forthe omission of a few lines, the addition ofthis summary, and a comparison with somemore recent experimental work, so thatthe writings of later workers in this field may be appreciated .  an ideal problem is here discussed .  a finiteamount of energy is suddenly releasedin an infinitely concentrated form .  the motionand pressure of the surrounding air iscalculated .  it is found that a spherical shockwave is propagated outwards whoseradius r is related to the time t since the explosionstarted by the equationwhere is the atmospheric density, e isthe energy released and s a calculatedfunction of, the ratio of the specific heats of air .  the effect of the explosion is to force mostof the air within the shock front into athin shell just inside that front .  as the frontexpands, the maximum pressure decreasestill, at about 10 atm., the analysis ceasesto be accurate .  at 20 atm. 45 ofthe energy has been degraded into heat which isnot available for doing work and usedup in expanding against atmospheric pressure .this leads to the prediction that anatomic bomb would be only half as efficient, asa blast-producer, as a high explosivereleasing the same amount of energy .  in the ideal problem the maximum pressure isproportional to r, and comparisonwith the measured pressures near high explosives,in the range of radii where the twomight be expected to be comparable, shows thatthese conclusions are borne out byexperiment .
  taylor's analysis of the intense spherical explosionhas been extended to the cylindrical case .  it is foundthat the radius r of a strong cylindrical shock waveproduced by a sudden release of energy e per unit lengthgrows with time t according to the equationwhere is the atmospheric density andis a calculated function of the specificheat ratio .  for is found to be approximatelyunity .  for this case, the pressure behind theshock wave decays with radius r according to the relation .applying the results of this analysisto the case of hypersonic flight, it can be shown thatthe shock envelope behind a meteor or a high-speedmissile is approximately a paraboloid given bywhere d and v denote the totaldrag and the velocity of the missile, respectively,and x is the distance behind the missile .
  a new method has been given, for obtaining asymptotic solutions of aboundary value problem for the wave equation .  the method is simplerthan the method previously given by burger, and leads to a resultidentical with burger's result .
  a brief review is made of the available information concerningthe flow fluctuations and instabilities arising from shock-inducedseparation in the flow over aerofoils and wings .  the influence thisphenomenon has on the oscillatory behaviour of aerofoils and controlsurfaces is also briefly discussed .  a more detailed consideration is devoted to a recent investigationat the n.p.l. into the part played by shock-induced separation in theinstability of a control surface .
  an exact general method of solvingthe neumann or second boundary-valueproblem has been developed and has beenapplied to the calculation of lowspeedflows about or within bodies ofalmost any shape, provided the flow iseither plane or has axial symmetry .solid-body, inlet, and purely internalflow problems can be solved .  themethod is capable of dealing with severalbodies at once in the presence ofone another, and consequently interferenceproblems can be treated with ease .boundaries need not be solid, that is,flows involving area suction can becalculated .  velocities can be computednot only for points on the surface ofthe body but for the entire flow field .  a surface source distribution isused as a basis for solution .  thisleads to a fredholm integral equationof the second kind, which is solved asa set of linear algebraic equations,usually by a modified seidel method .at the present time the solution isprogramed on the ibm 704 edpm to solvethe flow about any body that has thepreviously mentioned characteristicsand whose profile can be definedsatisfactorily by no more than 300 coordinatepoints .  a number of solutionsare presented, to show both the scopeof the method and its accuracy .computations require from three minutesto two hours, depending upon theshape of the body and the number of pointsused to define it .
  an analysis is made for the laminarfree convection and heat transfer ofa viscous electrically conducting fluidfrom a hot vertical plate in the casewhen the induced field is negligiblecompared to the imposed magnetic field .it is found that similar solutions forvelocity and temperature exist whenthe imposed magnetic field (actingperpendicular to the plate) varies inverselyas the fourth root of the distance fromthe lowest end of the plate .  explicitexpressions for velocity, temperature,boundary layer thickness and nusseltnumber are obtained and the effectof a magnetic field on them is studied .it is found that the effect of themagnetic field is to decrease the rate ofheat transfer from the wall .  in thesecond part, the method of characteristicsis employed to obtain solutions ofthe time-dependent hydromagnetic freeconvection equations (hyperbolic) ofmomentum and energy put into integralform .  the results yield the time requiredfor the steady flow to be established,and the effect of the magnetic field on this time is studied .
the influence of transverse magnetic fields onthe laminar free-convection flow of liquidmetals over a vertical flat plate and betweenvertical parallel plates is examined forspecific wall temperature variations andprandtl numbers .  the extent of influence onthe flow and temperature fields is determinedby the magnitude of a nondimensional influenceparameter which is the ratio of themagnetic force to the buoyant force .  in general,increasing the magnetic field strengthdecreases the magnitude of the velocity, wallshear, and surfaces heat transfer andincreases the temperature throughout the fluid .analytical results demonstrate that magneticfields of practical strengths exert considerableinfluence on liquid metal free-convection flow fields .
  the free-convection flow and heat transfer of anelectrically conducting fluid on a verticalplate in the presence of a transverse magneticfield is analysed for a magnetic fieldfixed to the electrically non-conducting wall .  theboundary layer equations for selfpreservingflows are integrated numerically for theprandtl number of unity, and the effectof the transverse magnetic field on the velocityprofile, temperature profile and rate ofheat transfer is discussed .  it is concluded thatthe heat transfer rate is reduced as themagnetic field intensity is increased .
  combined free and forced convective heat transferin vertical channels has been studied by many researchers.  due to the need for engineering designinformation there have been many papers concerningcases of fully developed flow with varying wall temperature.  forced flows in a channel of electricallyconducting fluid with a transverse magnetic fieldhave been studied and the large effects of a magneticfield on the flow pattern have been established .  flows of combined free and forced convection inelectrically conducting fluids in vertical channelswith a transverse magnetic field are expected to attractattention in future engineering applications, forexample, in a magneto-hydrodynamic generator or inplasma studies .  however, except for a report bygershuni and zhukhovitskii (1) concerning a particularcase, no general study has been published .  this paper is a general treatment of fully developed,free and forced convective, laminar, magnetohydrodynamicflow in a vertical channel with a transversemagnetic field .  it includes combined free andforced convective flows in channels without a magneticfield reported by ostrach (2), tao (3), etc. asspecial cases .  hartmann flow (4) is included in theother limit .
  discussion of various turbulent-boundary-layer theories, inthe light of experimental measurements by matting and co-workers .the application of (1) the mager insulated-wall transformation, andand illustrated graphically .
  the shock tube is shown to be a feasible research tool for conductingboundary-layer transition experiments .  the use of theshock tube permits the study of transition with highly cooledboundary layers, as may be encountered on hypersonic vehicles .  boundary-layer transition investigations have been made onoptically polished pyrex hemisphere-cylinder and ellipse-cylindermodels with stagnation-to-wall enthalpy ratios between 4.5 androughness estimated to be less than 1 microinch (rms) .  transitionwas detected by measurements of the heat-transfer rates onthe model surface .  the shock tube experiments indicated that a characteristicfeature of transition of a highly cooled boundary layer on a hemispherewas the simultaneous occurrence of transition over theentire supersonic portion of the hemisphere .  this implies thattransition first occurred in the sonic region .  the transitionreynolds number (based on local fluid properties at the outeredge of the boundary layer and the momentum thickness) in thesonic region increased from about 225 to 325 as the stagnation-towallenthalpy ratio increased from about 9.5 to 29.5 .  transitionoccurred along the cylindrical portion of the hemisphere-cylindermodel at a nearly constant momentum thickness reynoldsnumber, increasing from about 400 to 625 as the stagnation-towallenthalpy ratio increased from about 9.5 to 29.5 .  the highly cooled boundary layers obtained on the cylindricalportion of the shock tube hemisphere-cylinder model provided anextension of nasa transition results obtained on a cooled hemisphere-cone-cylindermodel in a wind tunnel .  the transitionreynolds numbers obtained from these shock tube data were ofthe same order of magnitude as the minimum transition reynoldsnumbers obtained in the wind-tunnel experiments .  theresults indicate that, for practical purposes, boundary-layercooling is not a critical transition parameter for blunt bodies witha highly cooled boundary layer resulting from a stagnation-towallenthalpy ratio of about 3 to 30 .  that is, the transitionreynolds number did not vary significantly with boundarylayercooling in this cooling range, but transition always occurredat a low reynolds number (between about 350,000 and 750,000based on local external properties and a distance along the bodysurface from the stagnation point) .  the boundary-layer history (body shape history) appeared tobe an important parameter affecting the magnitude of the reynoldsnumber for transition and the amount of increase in thetransition reynolds number with increased boundary-layercooling .  that is, transition occurred at a lower reynolds numberon the ellipse-cylinder configuration than on the hemispherecylinder.  also, the increase in transition reynolds number withan increase in boundary-layer cooling was even less significantfor the ellipse-cylinder than the hemisphere-cylinder .
  a numerical solution of the inviscid flow field about slender bluntbodies of revolution has been developed through a combination of twomethods ..  the van dyke solution in the subsonic flowregion at the nose, and the method ofcharacteristics in the supersonic region .the results are compared with secondorderblast wave theory and with experimentaldata,. and the respective merits anddeficiencies of the two theoretical methodsare pointed out .  the results of thenumerical solution are further used in adiscussion of the entropy layer, topropose a possible criterion of entropy layer thickness .
  the transient performance ofablation type heat protection shields istreated herein for the surface ofa vehicle returning from outer space to theearth .  the vehicle weighs 8640 kg,has a ballistic factor of 500 lb ft, reenterswith a speed of 11 km sec atratio of 0.5, and is subjected to amaximum deceleration of 7.7 times thegravity constant .  by use of well known equationsfor the heat transfer and the mass transferat a heated surface, a numericalcalculation method is derived which, forthe investigated ablation processes,yields exact transient solutions of thefundamental system of partial differentialequations .  the method is appliedto various quartz shields and to oneteflon shield, which all evaporate soreadily under the conditions of theproblem at hand that practically no flowof molten shield material exists .the solutions also show comparatively smalltemperature changes parallel to the surface .  the results show that the noseof the vehicle is cooled predominantly bythe evaporation of the quartz or theteflon,. the rest of the vehicle's surfaceis cooled by radiation of the quartzor evaporation of the teflon .  the largemass transfer effects on the nose ofthe vehicle are detrimental since the resultinglow surface temperatures preventthe radiative heat transfer out ofthe shield, which does not involve anymass loss, from being the desirablegoverning cooling factor .
  corridors for manned vehicles aredefined consistent with requirementsfor avoiding radiation exposure and forlimiting values of peak deceleration.  use of lift increases the depthof the entry corridor .  mid-courseguidance requirements appear to be criticalonly for the flight-path angle .increasing the energy of the transfer orbitincreases the required guidanceaccuracy for the flight-path angle .  corrective thrust applied essentiallyparallel to the local horizontalproduces the maximum change in perigeealtitude for a given increment ofvelocity .  energy required to effect agiven change in perigee altitudevaries inversely with range measuredfrom the center of the earth .
  a machine for testing turbine nozzles by the reactionmethod, which was described in a previous paper, wasused to test a series of convergent-divergent turbinenozzles .  the results of these tests, along with the testof a convergent turbine nozzle, are compared with eachother and with analytical values .  two kinds of analyticalvalues are employed, namely, the usual values obtainedfrom an assumed isentropic expansion from inlet state toexhaust pressure, and the values obtained from the assumptionthat the processes in the nozzle are isentropicexcept for a normal shock which takes up a position in thenozzle such as to cause the stream to fill the exit area atthe exhaust pressure whenever possible .  this latter kindof analytical value involves no shock when the exit area canbe filled at the exhaust pressure by means of isentropicprocesses only, or when the exhaust pressure is loweredso far that the shock has passed out of the passage .  theagreement of the test results with the calculated resultsof this latter kind is good, and the disagreement whichexists can be attributed largely to separation at the shockand to transmission of exhaust-pressure effects upstreamthrough the boundary layer .
  an analysis was made of the flow conditions downstream of acascade of turbine rotor blades at critical and supercritical pressureratios .  the results of five theoretical methods for determiningthe deflection angle are compared with those of an experimentalmethod using the conservation-of-momentum principle and staticpressuresurveys, and also are compared with an analysis of schlierenphotographs of the flow downstream of the blades .  a twodimensionalcascade of six blades with an axial width of 1.80 incheswas used for the static-pressure surveys and for some of the schlierenphotographs .  in order to determine the flow conditions severalblade chords downstream of the cascade, schlieren photographs weretaken of the flow through a cascade of 18 blades having an axialwidth of 0.60 inch .  for the blade design studied, even at static-to-total pressureratios considerably lower than that required to give critical velocityat the throat section, the flow was deflected in the tangentialdirection as predicted for the incompressible case .  as the pressureratio was lowered further, the aerodynamic loading of the rear portionof the blade reached a maximum value and remained constant .after this condition was attained, the expansion downstream of thecascade took place with a constant tangential velocity so that nofurther increase in the amount of turning across the blade row andno further increase in the loading of the blade was available .
  the hyperbolic character of the differentialequation satisfied by the velocitypotential in linearized supersonic flow entailsthe presence of fractional infinitiesin the fundamental solutions of the equation .difficulties arising from this fact canbe overcome by the introduction of hadamard'sfinite part of an infinite integral .together with the definition of certain counterpartsof the familiar vector operatorsthis leads to a natural development of the analogybetween incompressible flowand linearized supersonic flow .  in particular, formulaeare derived for the field offlow due to an arbitrary distribution of supersonicsources and vortices .  applications to aerofoil theory, including thecalculation of the downwash in thewake of an aerofoil, are given in a separate report (ref. 9) .
  a semi-circular ring wing with a body of revolution onthe axis is studied to find the wave and the vortex drag forvarious chordwise lift distributions and for three values ofa parameter describing the wing geometry .  using thewave drag obtained from the chordwise loading that gives theleast drag, together with the vortex and skin friction drags,the maximum lift to drag ratio for each wing geometry iscomputed .  compared to the estimates made by lomax and heaslet,somewhat lower drags are found .
  an examination has been made of thevarious versions of the surface oilflow technique used in different high speedwind tunnels .  to provide backgroundinformation for this investigationsome systematic tests were made ona simple model in a small supersonic tunnel .the experience gained made itpossible to explain many of the variationsin terms of the different operatingconditions of the tunnels .  the time taken to form a patternon a typical model is, to a firstapproximation, directly proportional tothe value of the parameter,the factor being 36,000 12,000 .  thetime taken appears to be independentof the initial thickness of the oil sheet .  a general procedure for the developmentof oil mixtures for any purposeis suggested .
the problem of solving asymptotic developments for all quantitiesinvolved in relaxation oscillations has been solved by haag .  thispaper indicates how one can carry out such developments in a casewhich is simple enough to be treated explicitly .
  data are presented which show the effect of a jet on base pressurefor a series of conical afterbody-jet-nozzle combinations having boattailangles that varied from 0 to 11 and base-to-jet diameter ratiosthat varied from 1.11 to 2.67 .  the jet nozzles had exit angles from 0to 20 and were designed for exit mach numbers from 1.0 to 3.2 .  pressureratios up to 30 were tested for both a cold (air) and a hotnumbers of 1.91 and 3.12 .  in general, base pressure increased for increasing values of boattailangle, nozzle angle, jet temperature, and jet total pressure andfor decreasing values of base-to-jet diameter ratio, jet mach number,and free-stream mach number .  the addition of tail surfaces producedonly small changes in base pressure .  for all variables, base pressure is governed by the maximum pressurerise that can be supported by the wake fluid in the region of thetrailing shock .  the wake pressure ratio is in turn governed by the jetand free-stream mach numbers adjacent to the wake region and by thestate of the boundary layer on the boattail and on the nozzle .  values of wake pressure ratio computed using the theory of korst,page, and childs were in good agreement with experimental values forconvergent nozzles .
  a method of predicting laminar heat-transfer rates to blunt,highly cooled bodies with constant wall temperature in dissociatedair flow is developed .  attention is restricted to the case of axisymmetricbodies at zero incidence, although two-dimensionalbodies could be treated the same way .  the method is based onthe use of the /local similarity/ concept and an extension of theideas used by fay and riddell .  a simple formula is given forpredicting the ratio of local heat-transfer rate to stagnation-pointrate .  it depends on wall conditions and pressure distribution,but not on the thermodynamic or transport properties of the hotexternal flow, except at the stagnation point .  experimental heat-transfer rates obtained with correct stagnation-pointsimulation and high wall cooling in shock tubes arealso presented and compared with the theoretical predictions .on the whole, the agreement is good, although in regions of rapidlyvarying pressure there is evidence that the local similarityassumption breaks down, and the theory underestimates theactual heat-transfer rate by up to 25 per cent .
  the static aeroelastic stability or divergence problem is investigatedfor thin supersonic wings when not only the spanwisebending and twist are taken into account but also the chordwisebending .  the problem is treated in successive phases of increasingcomplexity from the two-dimensional curling-up of theleading edge to the three-dimensional stability of the cantileverwing .  several methods of approach are developed includingthe nonlinear aspects of the structure and the aerodynamics .results indicate a strong dependence of stability on poisson'sratio and the magnitude of the deformation .
there have recently arisen some questions as to thepossibility of panel flutter at high dynamic pressures andmach numbers .  in addition, some doubts have been raisedabout the convergence of the galerkin method when applied tosuch problems .  this note is intended to shed light on thesematters .
  this note attempts to extend the discussion by stating aslightly neater form of generalized stability conditions and describingcertain experimental results on dynamic instability .
  the weissinger method for determining additional spanloading for incompressible flow is used to find the damping inroll, the lateral center of pressure of the rolling load, and thespan loading coefficients caused by rolling for wing plan formsof various aspect ratios, taper ratios, and sweep angles .  inaddition, the applicability of the method to the determinationof certain other aerodynamic derivatives is investigated, andcorrections for the first-order effects of compressibility areindicated .  the agreement obtained between experimentally and theoreticallydetermined values for the aerodynamic coefficientsindicates that the method of weissinger is well suited to thecalculation of the additional span loading caused by rollingand for the calculation of such resulting aerodynamic derivativesof wings as do not involve considerations of tip suction .
  the motion of the trailing vortices associated with a lifting wingis investigated by theoretical and visual-flow methods for thepurpose of determining the proper vortex distribution to be usedfor downwash calculations .  both subsonic and supersonic speedsare considered in the analysis .  it is found that the degree to which the vortices are rolled updepends upon the distance behind the wing and upon the liftcoefficient, span loading, and aspect ratio of the wing .  while therolling up of the trailing vortices associated with high-aspectratiowings is of little practical importance, it is shown that, withlow-aspect-ratio wings, the trailing vortex sheet may become essentiallyrolled up into two trailing vortex cores within a chordlength of the trailing edge .  the downwash fields associated with the two limiting cases ofthe flat vortex sheet and the fully rolled-up vortices are investigatedin detail for both subsonic and supersonic speeds .  theintermediate case in which the rolling-up process is only partiallycompleted at the tail position is also discussed .
  a theoretical study is made of some cruciform-wing arrangementsand their wakes by means of slender-body theory .  thebasic ideas of this theory are reviewed and equations are developedfor the pressures, loadings, and forces on slender cruciformwings and wing-body combinations .  the rolling-up ofthe vortex sheet behind a slender cruciform wing is consideredat length and a numerical analysis is carried out using 40vortices to calculate the wake shape at various distances behindan equal-span cruciform wing at 45 bank .  analytical expressionsare developed for the corresponding positions ofthe rolled-up vortex sheets using a 4-vortex approximation tothe wake, and these positions are compared with the positionsof the centroids of vorticity resulting from the numerical analysis .the agreement is found to be remarkably good at all distancesbehind the wing .  photographs of the wake as observed in a water tank arepresented for various distances behind a cruciform wing at 0and 45 bank .  for 45 bank, the distance behind the wingat which the upper two vortices pass between the lower two ismeasured experimentally and is found to agree well with the  the calculation of loads on cruciform tails is considered insome detail by the method of reverse flow, and equations aredeveloped for the tail loads in terms of the vortex positionscalculated in the earlier analyses .
  the paper sets down the equations of motion for a symmetricrolling missile with respect to axes attached to the missile .  themissile may be jet (or rocket) propelled or coasting under acceleratingor decelerating conditions, respectively, wherein the variablerolling velocity is derived from intentionally or unintentionally/canted/ fins and or wings .  the equations contain a force and moment system that includes,in addition to the usual forces and moments, those due tomagnus effects, misaligned surfaces, canted surfaces, jet misalignment,and the linear accelerations in the plane normal to the missileaxis .  the results present general stability criteria for a rolling missilewhich are summarized in the /discussion of stability ./
  experiments are reported on the interaction of turbulentboundary layers and shock waves with sweptback configurations .they show that the peak pressure rise at separation, the upstreaminfluence ahead of separation, and the pressure rise at reattachmentfor moderate sweep angles can all be understood bysimple extensions of available two-dimensional theories .
  a method is presented for the rapid calculation of the incompressiblelaminar boundary layer in an arbitrary flow aroundeither a two-dimensional or a rotationally-symmetrical body .the solution is obtained without recourse to von karman'smomentum equation by means of a coarse step-by-step procedurein which each segment of the velocity distribution is approximatedby one of the falkner-skan family of similar flows .  solutions have at least as much accuracy as those of any otherone-parameter approximate method, and in certain cases thesolutions become exact .  in regions of accelerating velocity, theaccuracy appears to be very high .  in decelerating flows, separationis predicted somewhat early compared with exact solutionsthat is, the method is conservative in contrast to the vonkarman-pohlhausen procedure which sometimes fails to predictseparation that actually exists .  the method is the most rapid hand procedure known to theauthor, provided the full history of the boundary layer is required.  if only a thickness such as is needed at one point on asurface, then it is about equal in speed to the quadrature method .but, if several values of or other properties along a surface arerequired, it is appreciably faster than the quadrature method .characteristically, only four steps are needed between the forwardstagnation point and the pressure peak .  once the velocitydistributiondata are available, each step in a two-dimensionalcalculation requires about 5 minutes, using a slide rule .
the advent of high-speed flight has necessitated the study ofboundary-layer transition on highly cooled bodies .  investigationssuch as those of references 1-4 have concentratedon this problem and have indicated, contrary to the trendspredicted by small-disturbance theory, that premature transitioncan be found with cooling .  this phenomenon, commonly calleddetail in references 2-5 .  the purpose of this note is to report some recent transitiondata obtained on a cooled cone in a mach 4 wind tunnel .  themodel, a sharp-tip cone (included angle 13.5), was cooled byliquid nitrogen to a temperature of -340 f .  the coolingmethod and the data analysis are similar to that described inreference 3 .
  laminar, transitional, and turbulent heating rates have beenmeasured by means of the shrouded model technique .  thereynolds number was varied over a ninefold range,. the enthalpyratio (stagnation to wall) varied from 2.3 to approximately 1.5 .two different pressure distributions were imposed on the modelwhich consisted of a spherically capped cone .  the experimental data are compared to the laminar hypersonicboundary-layer theory and shown to be in good agreement on theconical portion of the model .  on the spherical portion the dataare approximately 20 per cent higher than the theoretical prediction.  some of this discrepancy can be attributed to radiation tothe nose of the model .  the fully developed turbulent heat-transfer data are comparedto two theories ..  (1) a relatively simple turbulent theory which isbased on recent theoretical work and which takes into accountthe upstream history of the boundary layer, and (2) the flat-platereference-enthalpy theory, which depends on only /local/ conditions.  although both theories are in reasonable agreement withthe data, the latter method is simpler and somewhat more accurate.  for transitional flow the theory mentioned first can be readilymodified in order to permit reasonable estimates of transitionalheat transfer to be obtained .  on this basis it is possible to estimatelaminar, transitional, and fully developed turbulent heattransfer under hypersonic blunt-body conditions .  the behavior of transition reynolds number based on momentumthickness is also discussed and shown to be in quantitativeagreement with recent shock-tube measurements .
in references 1 and 2 there were presented experimental data ontransitional heat transfer on a blunt body under hypersonic-flowconditions obtained by the shroud technique .  the data were comparedwith a theoretical prediction of transitional heat transfer basedon a suggestion of persh .  the agreement between theory and experimentin the transitional region was found to be 'qualitatively good andquantitatively fair' .it is the purpose of this note to present some additional transitionaldata obtained in conventional wind-tunnel tests and to indicate ameans for improving somewhat the agreement between transitionaltheory and experiment .
most treatments of magnetohydrodynamicwaves have confined physical interpretationto cases when the alfven velocity ais small compared with the soundvelocity a .  here we consider the 'low-betasituation', in which a is muchlarger than a .  then, except for two modes withwave velocity a the only possiblewaves are longitudinal ones, propagatedunidirectionally along lines of magneticforce with velocity a .  these can beinterpreted as sound waves, confined toeffectively rigid magnetic tubes of force .hall-current effects do not alter theseconclusions (in contrast to the high-betasituation), and finite conductivityintroduces only small dissipation .  an application is made to the flow patternaround a body moving through thef layer of the ionosphere, where, althoughneutral particles have a very largemean free path, charged particles interactelectrostatically and, it is argued, maybe regarded as forming a continuous fluidwhose movement is independent ofthat of the neutral particles .  a body movingat satellite speed or below wouldthen excite the above-mentioned unidirectionalsound waves, but no waves atmuch faster alfven velocity .  these considerationssuggest that its movementwould be accompanied by a v-shaped pattern ofelectron density (figure 2),which might be in part responsible for someanomalous radar echoes that havebeen reported .
  the effects of compressibility on the steady motion of a highlyconducting fluid past thin cylindrical bodies in the presence of amagnetic field are studied .  procedures are developed for thesolution of this class of magnetoaerodynamic problems over theentire mach number range and for all ratios of magnetic to fluiddynamicpressure .  the results obtained are analogous either tothe ackeret theory or the prandtl-glauert rule of conventionalaerodynamics, depending on the relative values of the flow speedand the appropriate speed of propagation of magnetoacousticdisturbances .  the methods used and the physical interpretationof the solutions obtained vary according to the orientation of themagnetic field with respect to the flow direction .  the results of the theory are explained in terms of the anisotropicpropagation of magnetoacoustic pulses studied previouslyby several authors .
  the purpose of this note is to discuss the two-dimensionalflow of an electrically conducting viscous fluid past a wedgein the presence of a magnetic field .  the governing differentialequations and boundary conditions are given and analyzed .
  the flow of viscous electrically conducting fluidpast a semi-infinite plate is considered .  the appliedconstant magnetic field and the constant oncomingvelocity of the fluid are in the direction parallelto the plate .  in addition to reynolds number the flow in theboundary layer depends on two parametersand .  the two simultaneousordinary nonlinear differential equations are solved bythe asymptotic method for the cases whenand respectively .  the main results obtained are as follows .  the equationscan be solved exactly for and  .the perturbation effect from infinity when k is largedepends on, whereas the perturbation effect fromzero when k is small depends on .  for large k, includingthere is no solution for .  it isassumed that the fluid is incompressible with constantphysical properties .
  by introducing the similarity concept to the two-dimensional,incompressible navier-stokes equations and energy equation, aparticular class of solutions is found .  two general types of flowsare considered ..  (1) laminar free convection--i.e., flows whichtake place due to a body force--and (2) laminar forced convection.  for free convection on vertical plates, similar solutions areobtained for two different power-law surface temperature variations,and it is shown that one of these solutions constitutes anew type of boundary problem .  results of numerical integrationsof the equations are compared with solutions of the similarboundary-layer equations for free convection, and it is demonstratedthat a range of surface temperature variations exists forwhich the boundary layer equations are no longer valid .  for forced convection, it is shown that the use of similaritytransformations provides an alternate method of deriving theordinary differential equations for some well-known solutions,such as couette and stagnation point flows .  solutions are obtainedfor radial converging or diverging flows between planesurfaces when the temperatures of the surfaces vary as arbitrarypowers of the distance from the orgin .  results of numericalintegrations of the ordinary differential equations are presentedfor prandtl numbers of 0.01 and 1.0 and for linear surface temperaturevariations .  some rather surprising results are obtainedfor diverging flows when separation occurs and some revealingcomparisons with results from boundary-layer theory are made .
a modified parabolic curve appears to be in close proximity to thatobtained by either the method of characteristics or the wave method .thus an attempt has been made to use analytic geometry to determineapproximately the contour of a two-dimensional, sharp-corneredsupersonic nozzle in a very short time .
the thermodynamic and transport properties of high-temperature air arefound in closed form starting from approximate partition functions forthe major components in air and neglecting all minor components . thecompressibility, enthalpy, entropy, the specific heats, the speed ofsound, the coefficients of viscosity and of thermal conductivity, andthe prandtl numbers for air are tabulated from 500degree to 15,000degree k over a range of pressure from 0.0001 to 100 atmospheres . the energyof air and the mol fractions of the major components of air can be found from the tabulated values for compressibility and enthalpy . it ispredicted that the prandtl number for fully ionized air, which is incomplete equilibrium, will become small compared to unity, the order oftransparent to heat flux .
  earlier studies assume an average heat of formation of atomsbased upon external flow conditions .  it is shown that equilibriumheat transfer decreases by 35 for a typical mach number 24 casewhen allowance is made for the proportions of air components .the variable recombination energy also results in atom mass fractionswhich are realistically less for equilibrium than frozen situationsthroughout the cold-wall boundary layer .
  the present paper concerns withthe strong interaction phenomenon over aninsulated semi-infinite flat plate with a sharpleading edge .  in particular the main interestis in the consistent treatment in which theboundary-layer solution may be joined continuouslywith the inviscid solution regardingflow variables including pressure, normalvelocity, temperature (or streamwise velocity) and density .  it is shown that the behavior of the inviscidsolution may be consistent with that of theboundary-layer solution to at least first-orderapproximation that is correct to the order of,where m is the machnumber of undisturbed flow, r the reynoldsnumber based on the distance from leadingedge and the ratio of specific heats .  thenthe first-order boundary-layer problem isformulated under such an external circumstanceand an attempt is made for arriving at the solution .  actual calculations are carried out for bothcases of air and helium .  from the solutionit is found that the region in which the viscouseffect plays a significant role is ranged overfrom 0 to a certain finite value of n, say n, interms of the similarity coordinate n in thecorresponding incompressible boundary layer .the numerical results moreover indicatethat the induced pressure is considerably smallerthan the estimate of lees (7) obtained byhis approximate method in which the effectof the first-order induced pressure on theboundary layer is ignored and no survey of thefirst-order boundary-layer equation is made .the present results are also found to be inexcellent agreement with experimental datarecently obtained in helium flow by erickson (15) .
the present report gives an account ofthe development of an approximatetheory to the problem of hypersonicstrong viscous interactionon a flat plate with mass-transfer at theplate surface .  the disturbanceflow region is divided into inviscid andviscous flow regions .  the hypersonicsmall perturbation theory is appliedto the solution of the inviscidflow region .  the method of similar solutionsof compressible laminarboundary layer equations is applied to thetreatment of the viscous flowregion .  the law of surface mass-transferfor similar solutions is derived .the pressure and the normal velocity arematched between the inviscid andviscous flow solutions .  formulas for inducedsurface pressure, boundarylayer thickness, skin friction coefficient,and heat transfer coefficientare obtained .  numerical results and theirsignificance are discussed .future improvements are indicated .
  the first-order solution for the laminar compressible boundary-layerflow over a flat plate at constant wall temperature is given .  theeffect of slip at the wall as well as the interaction between theboundary-layer flow and the outer stream flow are taken into consideration.  the solution is obtained explicitly in terms of the known zeroorder, or continuum, solution .  noassumptions regarding the prandtl numberor viscosity-temperature law need be made .  it is found that thefirst-order solution gives a decrease in heat transfer and, for supersonicflow, an increase in skin friction .for subsonic flow there is nofirst-order shear effect .  the change in heat transfer is due to slipand the change in friction is due to the interaction of the zero- andfirst-order velocities at the outer edge of the boundary layer .
  approximate formulae of the displacement thickness and the skinfriction of the hypersonic laminar boundary layer are derived by use ofvon karman's integral method, assuming the heat-insulated wall, theprandtl number of unity and chapman and rubesin's formula for thevariation of viscosity with temperature .the results obtained are comparedwith some exact solutions .because of the good agreement, itseems that these formulae are very useful .  these formulae, together with the tangent-wedge-approximation, areapplied to the viscous flow overslender bodies with a sufficiently sharpleading edge .  as an example, thepressure distribution over a flat plateis calculated numerically over theentire region of the surface .  comparisonwith other author's theoreticalresults as well as experimentalvalues is made .
  the hypersonic viscous flow past a flatplate with suction or injectionis dealt with by karman-pohlhausen'smethod in special cases whensuction or injection velocity proportionalto, especiallyfor the region of strong interaction betweenthe shock wave and theboundary layer, were p is the pressure onthe plate and x is the distancemeasured along the plate from its leading edge .  several numerical examples are given,which shows similar effects ofinjection to those in the case of incompressibleflow that the injectionmakes all the height of the shock wave,the thickness of the boundarylayer and the pressure on the plate largerthan those in the case of noinjection .  on the contrary, in the case ofsuction no remarkable changeboth in the height of the shock wave andthe pressure on the plate canbe seen and only the velocity profile inthe boundary layer is affectedby the suction .
  the theory of the steady flow of a viscous compressible fluidpast a flat plate at high mach number due to lees and probsteinis extended by a more complete discussion of the flow inthe inviscid layer between the shock wave and the boundary layer .it is shown that similar solutions exist in this layer, analogouslyto those found by li and nagamatsu in the boundary layer, andthat the two may be joined to give, allowing one minor assumption,a full account of the flow .  it is shown that the boundarylayerequations may be reduced to those for an incompressiblefluid and that the von karman-pohlhausen method describesthe flow in it with good accuracy .  the tangent wedge approximationfor the pressure on the plate, used by lees and his collaborators,is found to be in deficitby 10 per cent for air .  finally,it is shown that the theory for weak interaction cannot be extendedfurther without a complete knowledge of the flow .
     in dealing with the steady laminar viscous flow over asemi-infinite flat plate some of the following topics are discussed .the streamline in the boundary layer over a leading edge of given thickness. the rate of growth of the boundary layer in the main stream, andcauses of pressure variations .asymptotic solutions for thn downstream flow region, including thejoining interaction of shock waves at the leading edge .pressure variations in the interanl viscous flow layer and in externalinviscid flow considered as prandtl meyer flow . in cases of streamlinedeflection, the free stream mach number, zero pressure gradient, andsurface pressure distribution . asymptotic solutions for cases offluid injection of a cool gas . prandtl heat transfer . the joininginteraction between the external inviscid flow and the internal viscousflow layer . steady laminar hpyersonic viscous flow over a flat wedgeand a cone .
the method is based on the observation of the divergence that occurs inthe variation of mean static pressure at the trailing edge of an aircraftwing at the critical stage in the development of boundary-layerseparation when its influence first spreads to the trailing edge andthereby to the overall flow .the significance of the trailing-edge pressure variations and theirconnection with the effects that separation has on the mean and unsteady loads is discussed for various types of separation . good predictioncan be obtained from wind-tunnel tests, or warning provided in flight,for low-speed separations and for shock-induced ones up to the stage atwhich the shock wave reaches the trailing edge . related divergences inwake width, lift coefficient, or shock position can also be used .pressure measurements at other isolated points often indicate the typeof separation .certain special considerations apply for swept wings .the various flow changes that are considered are illustrated byschlieren photographs and described in an appendix .
  a two-dimensional wind-tunnelinvestigation of the pressure distributionsover several naca 16-seriesairfoils with thicknesses ofand design lift coefficients ofthe langley airfoil test apparatusat transonic mach numbers from 0.7 tonumber from 2.4 x 10 to 2.8 x 10 andin angle of attack from -10 toand schlieren flow photographsare presented without analysis .
attention has been called by numerous authors to thepossibility of certain alternative forms for the equations fortransonic flow about thin wings .  it is the purpose of this noteto contribute to this discussion and to indicate some reasons forthe selection of one form of these in preference to another morewidely used form .
  a simplified method has been devised for determination of thecritical height of three-dimensional roughness particles required topromote premature transition of a laminar boundary layer on models ofairplanes or airplane components in a wind tunnel with zero heat transfer.  a single equation is derived which relates the roughness heightto a reynolds number based on the roughness height and on local flowconditions at the height of the roughness, and charts are presentedfrom which the critical roughness height can be easily obtained formach numbers from 0 to 5 .  a discussion of the use of these charts ispresented with consideration of various model configurations .  the method has been applied to various types of configurations inseveral wind-tunnel investigations conducted by the national advisorycommittee for aeronautics at mach numbers up to 4, and in all casesthe calculated roughness height caused premature boundary-layer transitionfor the range of test conditions .
  the major scale effects at high subsonic and transonicspeeds arise from differences between the conditionsunder which laminar and turbulent boundary layers separate, and inhow they behave after separation .  for turbulentboundary layers, these conditions and behaviour do not vary greatlyas the reynolds number is changed and in manyexamples, it has been shown that they are similar for the turbulentlayers that occur naturally at high reynolds numberand for boundary layers in which transition to turbulent flow is fixedartificially .  the scale effects arising in wind-tunneltests made at low reynolds number may, therefore, often beminimised by fixing transition to turbulent flow byintroducing an artificial disturbance such as that produced byexcrescences attached to the surface .  the fact that theeffects of separation are often less severe for laminar layers thanfor the turbulent layers that are likely to be encounteredat full scale, makes it all the more important to do this wheneverpossible .  several methods which can be used to fix transition are described,and the results obtained by using them are compared .in general, in experiments in two-dimensional flow, good agreementis found, and explanations can be advanced forcases in which discrepancies occur .  several uncertainties anddifficulties that arise in fixing transition are discussedand illustrated by examples .  in particular, special care is neededin interpreting the results obtained with transitionfixed at very low reynolds numbers (say, less than about r = 1 x 10based on local chord for wings of about 0.1thickness chord ratio and possibly higher reynolds numbers for thinnerwings) .  the difficulties of fixing transition satisfactorily are increasedfor three-dimensional wings, particularly if they areswept-back or highly tapered (i.e., small chord and reynoldsnumber near the tip) and if the tests cover a large rangeof incidence including high incidences for which the flow mayseparate from very close to the leading edge .  underthese circumstances, it is frequently necessary to place theexcrescences at different chordwise positions for low andhigh angles of incidence, and this is inconvenient in practice .more research is needed before sound recommendationscan be made as to how and where transition should be fixedon such models, particularly since in routine testing, it isoften not possible to check the effects of transition-fixing fully .  in the sections dealing with three-dimensional tests, examplesare given of the spurious results that have been avoidedsuccessfully by fixing transition, of the conditions where evenat low reynolds numbers artificial fixing of transitionmay not be necessary to give a turbulent boundary layer aheadof the shock, and of the conditions under which thereare some doubts whether the methods used for fixing transitionhave been satisfactory .
this note describes the manner in which the onset of the effects ofboundary-layer separation varies with mach number for two-dimensionalaerofoils, and discusses the influence of section shape as far as it isknown . a brief qualitative description is given of the mechanismunderlying the development of the separated flow and its effects,followed by a discussion of some of the ways in which this is likely todiffer for swept-back wings at high speeds . finally, the need isemphasized for continued work in a broadening field .
the theory of an'ideal dissociating'gas developed by lighthill/1957/forconditions of thermodynamic equilibrium is extended to non-equilibriumconditions by postulating a simple rate equation for the dissociationprocess/including the effects of recombination/ . this equation contains the'equilibrium'parameters of the lighthill theory plus a furtherdissociation phenomena .the behaviour of this gas is investigated in flow through a strongnormal shock wave and past a bluff body . the assumption is made thatthe gas receives complete excitation of its rotational and vibrationaldegrees of freedom in an infinitesimally thin region according to thefamiliar rankine-hugoniot shock wave relations before dissociationbegins . the variation of the relevant thermodynamic variables downstreamof this region is then computed in a few particular cases . themethod used in the latter case is an extension of the'newtonian'theoryof hypersonic inviscid flow . in particular, the case of a sphere istreated in some detail . the variation of the shock shape and thesphere diameter to the length scale of the dissociation process, isexhibited for conditions extending from completely undissociated flowto dissociated flow in thermal equilibrium . results would indicatethat significant and observable changes from the undissociated valuesoccur, although values for the non-equilibrium parameter are not, atpresent, available .
  two methods are shown for the calculation of the flow fieldbetween a blunt body and the shock associated with it for thecase of hypersonic flow .  real gas effects are included .  thesolutions consider only symmetric flows--that is, symmetricbodies at zero incidence .  one method consists in tracing successive stream tubes aroundthe body and leads to iterations on the initially assumed positionof the shock .  the second is an integral method closely analogousto the karman-pohlhausen procedure for boundary layers .  adistinction is made between round-nosed and flat-nosed bodies,and both cases are discussed .  a specific example corresponding to a re-entry missile situationis calculated,. the two methods agree within a few per cent .comparison is also made with other known solutions in thestagnation region .
  a generalized wave equation is derived for sound disturbancesin a gas when relaxation effects connected with, for example,molecular vibration or dissociation are important .  solutions involvingdiscontinuous wave fronts are presented, and it is shownthat, under certain assumptions, the complete wave equation reducesto a variant of the telegraph equation .  detailed solutionsare presented for disturbance fields produced by a wavy wall insubsonic and supersonic flow and a simple wedge in supersonicflow .  this study is viewed as a step in the development of atheory of small disturbances of a high-temperature gas, as is foundbehind the shock in hypersonic flight .
attention is drawn to a previous accurate solution to the problem .
the blasius equation describes the velocity distribution resulting fromlaminar, constant-pressure mixing of a stationary fluid layer and amoving stream . in connection with a numerical procedure for the univacbased on analytic continuation of the function f' . high-speed computers now make it feasible to use analytic continuation for numericalintegration of single-point boundary-value problems such that, withinthe limits of taylor's expansion, truncation error may be madearbitrarily small . a brief description of the application of theroutine is given .
relates to a technique for approximate determination of the initialparameters . the technique is an application of the asymptotic integrationmethod introduced by meksyn and has been applied to the computation of the skin friction for shock-generated boundary-layer flow .
  the purpose of the present note is to give an exact solution ofthe incompressible navier-stokes equations at an axisymmetricstagnation point with vorticity in the oncoming flow which varieslinearly with distance from the axis .  this solution has applicationto the hypersonic axisymmetric blunt body problem, for whichlighthill has shown the vorticity in the inviscid shock layer isvery nearly of this form .
the effect of vorticity on axisymmetric stagnation point boundary layercalculations is investigated by calculating a perturbation to thestagnation point flow . the shear caused by the vorticity effect isfound to be surprisingly large,.the slope of the shear curve /at zerovorticity/ as calculated by kemp agrees perfectly with the value deduced in this note .
  numerical computations have been performed for the boundary-layerform of the energy equation for incompressible flowswith power-function variation of free-stream velocity (u =cx) and of wall temperature (t = ax), the pertinent solutionsof the momentum equation in this case being those of hartree .the numerical computations given herein are to some extent arepetition of those given by schuh and by chapman and rubesin,the object of the present computations being the resolution of discrepanciesappearing in the previous solutions and an extension oftheir range .  ibm machine calculations were employed in thefinite difference calculation presently utilized, the results thereofcovering a range of wall-temperature function exponents fromvalues of m(4, 1, 0, -0.0904) .  the accuracy of the numericalcomputations is examined in detail, and the accuracy of the computedfunctions at the wall, which determine the heat-transferrate, is estimated to be within 2 per cent .  examination of the results reveals that the results of schuhfor the flat plate are in error .  for the range of the calculations,it was found that the local heat-transfer coefficient can, with theexception of large negative values, be expressed within 5per cent aswhere the exponent of the prandtl number varies from 0.254to 0.367 for -0.0904 and where the functioncan be approximated by the equation
analysis of thecompressible boundary layer with transverse curvature in first orderslip flow .  no boundary-layer interaction effects are consideredand only the zero pressure-gradient case is examined .
  a study is made of lees' /local flat-plate similarity/ rule forthe hypersonic laminar boundary layer .  it is shown that thisrule is exact under assumptions commonly invoked in the inviscidtheory of hypersonic flow .  beginning from this theoretical basis, a modified local flatplatesimilarity scheme is derived, involving separate rules forvelocity and enthalpy profiles, and is compared with exact similaritysolutions and with the existing theory of hypersonic leading-edgeinteraction .
  flow properties behind shock waves caused by bluff bodiestraveling at supersonic speeds are of major importance in missileand high-speed aircraft design .  paper presents a mathematical solutionfor the laminar boundary layer near the stagnation point of asphere .  surface temperature is free-stream static and shock isstrong .  air is assumed calorically and thermally perfect with aprandtl number of 0.72 and a dynamic viscosity directly proportionalto temperature .  based on work of homann (zamm 16, p. 153, 1936) and lighthillsimultaneous differential equations for the velocity and temperatureprofiles .  these are solved by numerical integration along anormal to the surface using a digital computer .  results are presentedas functions of free-stream mach number, reynoldsnumber, and specific heat ratio .  as increases, boundarylayerthickness is shown to decrease while shock stand-off distanceincreases .  stand-off distance also decreases with increasingand decreasing specific heat .  for constant and specificheat ratio, the product of skin-friction coefficient and the squareroot of decreases with increasing only approaching a constantvalue at greater than 10,000 .  reviewer's comment is concerned with the perfect gas assumptionfor air .  author suggests that the effects of dissociation onflow properties are accounted for by a proper choice of specificheat ratio .  a consideration of the kinetics of chemical reaction inthe cooled boundary layer emphasizes the oversimplification ofthis approach .  the effect on transport properties could have beenapproximated in present analysis by changing the prandtl numberto one more representative of the existing pressures and temperatures.
  this paper considers the problem of calculating viscous aerodynamiccharacteristics of blunt bodies at hypersonic speeds andat sufficiently high altitudes where the appropriate mean freepath becomes too large for the use of familiar boundary-layertheory but not so large that free molecule concepts apply .  results of an order-of-magnitude analysis are presented todefine the regimes of rarefied gas flow and the limits of continuumtheory .  based on theoretical and experimental evidence,the complete navier-stokes equations are used as amodel, except /very close/ to the free molecule condition .  thismodel may not necessarily give the shock wave structure indetail but satisfies overall conservation laws and should give areasonably accurate picture of all mean aerodynamic quantities .  in this /intermediate/ regime there are two fundamental classesof problems ..  a /viscous layer/ class and a /merged layer/class, the latter corresponding to a larger degree of rarefaction .for the viscous layer class there is a thin shock wave, but theshock layer region between the shock and the body is fully viscous,although the viscous stresses and conductive heat transferare small at the shock wave boundary .  here, the use of thenavier-stokes equations with outer boundary conditions givenby the hugoniot relations is justified .  for the merged layerclass, the shock wave is no longer thin, and the navier-stokesequations can be used to give a solution which includes the shockstructure and has free-stream conditions as outer boundary conditions.  a simpler procedure is presented for /incipient merged/conditions where the shock may no longer be considered an infinitesimallythin discontinuity but where it has not thickenedsufficiently to entail the /fully merged layer/ analysis .  in thiscase we approximate the shock by a discontinuity obeying conservationlaws which include curvature effects, viscous stresses,and heat conduction .  for a sphere and cylinder it is shown that the navier-stokesequations can be reduced to ordinary differential equations forboth the viscous and merged layer class of problems .  solutionsof these equations, when used in connection with hypersonic flowproblems, are in general only valid in the stagnation region .  toillustrate the viscous layer solutions, numerical calculationshave been performed for a sphere and cylinder with the assumptionof constant density in the shock layer, which is a usefulapproximation at hypersonic speeds .  to illustrate the mergedlayer solution, calculations have been carried out for a sphereusing the incipient merged layer approximation .  results are presented for detachment distance, surface shear,and heat-transfer rate in the stagnation region of a highly cooledsphere flying at hypersonic speed .  with decreasing reynoldsnumber, the shear and heat transfer are shown to increase abovethe extrapolated boundary-layer values in the viscous layerregime and then to begin falling in the incipient merged regime .as the reynolds number decreases in the incipient mergedregime, the density in the shock layer increases, and the staticand stagnation enthalpy behind the shock decrease .  calculations performed for an insulated sphere show that, withdecreasing reynolds number in the incipient merged regime,the density in the shock layer decreases,. the total enthalpy behindthe shock and at the stagnation point increase so that theyare higher than the free-stream total enthalpy,. and the stagnation-pointpressure behaves like the total enthalpy .  for the highly cooled cylinder in the viscous layer regime, thesame quantities are presented as for the sphere .  the increasefound in shear and heat transfer above extrapolated boundarylayertheory is small, in agreement with vorticity interactiontheory .  a discussion is given of the behavior of available experimentaldata for viscous flow quantities in the intermediate regime andthe behavior predicted by the results of the present calculations .qualitative agreement is indicated .
the instability of the accelerated interfacebetween a liquid (methanol or carbontetrachloride) and air has been investigatedexperimentally for approximatesinusoidal disturbances of wave-number rangefrom well below to well above thecut-off .  the growth rates are measured andcompared with theoretical results .a third-order theory shows the phenomenaof overstability which is found in theexperimental results .  some measurementsof later stages of growth agreemoderately well with the available theoryand disclose some additional phenomenaof bubble competition, helmholtzinstability with transition to turbulence,and jet instability with production of drops .
  the model used is that of twofluids of infinite depth, with the interfaceinitially in the form of a sine wave withamplitude small compared to wave length .the fluids are considered incompressible,and only the linear terms in the equations ofhydrodynamics are used .  the first foursections discuss the effects of surface tensionand viscosity .  the fifth gives a few numericalresults to illustrate the main points ofthe preceding sections .
  on the basis of the hypersonic small-perturbation theory, thelaws of similitude for hypersonic inviscid flow fields over thin orslender bodies are examined, and the restrictions to ideal gaseswith constant specific heats and to bodies with pointed noses areremoved .  only steady plane or axisymmetric flows are considered.  inspection of the governing system of equations shows that asimilitude law exists for flow fields, under local thermal equilibrium,having the same free-stream atmosphere .  for flows ofideal gas with constant specific heats, the requirement of the samefree-stream atmosphere--i.e., the same composition, pressure, anddensity--can be replaced by the requirement of the same ratio ofspecific heats .  for flows over blunted wedges or cones, special laws of similitudecan be obtained .  application of the similarity rules is examined for the case ofhypersonic flows of an ideal gas with over flat plateswith blunt leading edges, and for the case of equilibrium airflows over wedges .  the possibility of simulating nonequilibriumflows over slender or thin bodies is also pointed out .
the equations are given for the laminar boundary-layerequations on a yawed infinite wing for constantwall temperature, under the combined howorth andmangler transformation .  diagrams show the relativelysmall influence of yaw, the increase of boundary-layersecondary flow, and the variation of the local heattransfer rate with yaw .
in order to bring out the importance of the leading-edge region athypersonic speeds, the influence of the leading-edge shock wave onthe laminar boundary layer is investigated in two simple cases ofsteady flow over a semi-infinite, insulated flat plate..  (1) sharpleading edge., (2) blunt leading edge, as approximated by a normalshock wave .  the streamlines that enter the boundary layer over a largeregion of the plate surface has previously crossed the shock wavevery near the leading-edge, where the shock is strong and highlycurved .  consequently, the temperature at the outer edge of theboundary layer is appreciably higher than free-stream temperature,and the vorticity there is not zero .  the effects of this shock-wavelarger than the usual /errors/ made in the boundary-layer theory,and an estimate of these effects can therefore be obtained within theframework of that theory .  the numerical magnitude of the shock-waveinfluence is found to be appreciable .  for the case of the bluntleading edge the slope of the curve of induced pressures plotted againstthe hypersonic interaction parameter closely approaches the experimentaldata of hammitt and bogdonoff obtained in helium at large values of thisparameter .  these approximate results show that the influence of theleading-edge region at hypersonic speeds requires careful theoreticaland experimental study .
experiments of transonic flow past a circular arc profile show that theshock-wave pattern and the pressure distribution are strongly dependentupon the state of the boundary layer . a change from laminar toturbulent boundary layer at a given mach number changes the flow pattern considerably .shock waves can interact with the boundary layer in a manner similar toa reflection from a free jet boundary . these shock waves are notdistinctly discernible from pressure distribution measurements .
  since the introduction of momentum methods in boundarylayercalculations by von karman and pohlhausen, many improvementshave been proposed .  an especially simple solutionreduces the problem to a quadrature .  here, it is proposed to extendthese methods to elementary three-dimensional cases and tocompressible laminar boundary-layer calculations .  for comparison,the corresponding problems for the turbulent boundarylayer are also discussed briefly .
the mass-injection process has been proposed as a methodof cooling aerodynamic surfaces, and, since the amount ofcoolant required to maintain practical wall temperatures is considerablylarger for turbulent than for laminar boundary layers,knowledge of the effect of the cooling method on the transitionprocess is certainly important .  exploratory studies reportedhere were conducted at mach number 3.7 to ascertain the effectsof gas injection on the stability of the laminar boundarylayer on a conical surface .
mass-transfer experiments on a 5 mil wire porous coneof 20 total angle have been conducted at usingair and helium injection .  details of the experimental techniqueare described in references 1 and 2 .  in the laminar boundarylayer the recovery factors and heat-transfer coefficients measuredwith zero injection agreed within per cent with theory .transition reynolds numbers observed on the porous cone withzero injection were half as large as observed on a smooth, impermeablemodel of identical geometry in the same channel, butinjection of large amounts of air or helium did not cause transitionto move forward from its zero-injection position on theporous cone .  distributed roughness of this type apparently doesnot disturb impermeable wall theory, but it masks whatevereffective roughness may be caused by discrete pore injection .
  it is found that for prescribed velocity field, electrical field andconductivity, the current can be calculated by integration .  work isrelated to analytic investigation of the boundary layer in a physicallyreasonable accelerator .
  adiabatic wall temperatures and recovery factors are calculatedfor pipe flows with an entrance mach number of 5 and with uniforminjection of helium .  predicted values of the recovery factor increaseslowly with increasing injection rate and with increasingdistance from the tube entrance .
  the equations for the nozzle's contours are derived by integrationof the characteristic equations of the axially symmetric flow .since it is not possible to integrate these equations mathematicallyin an exact form, it was necessary to find a way to approximatethe calculations .  the approximation offers itself by consideringand comparing the conditions of the flow in a cone withthose in a nozzle, as a linearization of the characteristic equations .  the first part of the report deals with equations for the transitioncurve by which the conical source flow is converted into aparallel stream of uniform velocity .  the equations are derivedby integration along a mach line of the flow in the region wherethe conversion takes place .  a factor f is introduced expressing arelation between the direction and the velocity of the flow alonga certain mach line .  f remains undetermined and is not involvedin the final equations .  in the second part of the report, the spherical sonic flow sectionis converted into a plane circular section of the throat .the nozzle's contour adjacent to the throat is formed by the arcof a circle connected with the transition curve by a straight line .the gas dynamic properties of the boundary mach line are calculatedin table 1, the use of which shortens the calculations considerably.
  a theory is developed which describes the effect of a generaldiffusion field on the dynamic and thermal characteristics of alaminar boundary layer on a flat plate in steady compressibleflow .  fluid properties are considered as functions of temperatureand local concentration of the foreign gas .  the diffusionfield is described by a differential equation that relates convectiveand diffusion transfer and which considers diffusion currentsarising from gradients of concentration and temperature .  bymeans of the usual transformations the system is reduced to a setof ordinary differential equations, which in turn are transformedinto a set of integral equations .  the latter is amenable to solutionby the method of successive approximations .  the theory and results have bearing on the problem of controland reduction of aerodynamic heating at hypersonic speeds .the special feature of this approach lies in the utilization of diffusionfields for the purpose of reducing the detrimental effectsof viscous dissipation .  although the theory is adapted to afuller investigation of this problem, the numerical examplesconsidered involve mainly diffusion fields of helium, with whichgood results have been achieved at mach numbers 8 and 12 .whereas at the higher mach number the influx of heat was practicallyeliminated, a reversal in the direction of heat flow hasbeen effected at the lower mach number .
  turbulent recovery factor and heat-transfer measurements have beenmade on a porous flat wall section at a nominal mach number of 3.0 and areynolds number of approximately 4 x 10 using both air and helium as thetranspired gas .  measured heat-transfercoefficients correlate well with thecompressible theory of rubesin for airand qualitatively with simple filmtheory for either coolant, indicating thatthe heat transfer from a turbulentboundary layer can be reduced by transpirationcooling to well below that ofthe uncooled boundary layer at the same reynolds number .
  author introduces his survey by a brief review of the history ofinvestigations dealing with boundary layers on impermeable solidsurfaces, and notes that no true theory exists for turbulent boundarylayers, the success of studies in this area having been due tothe introduction of artificial, if ingenious, assumptions which permittedempirical correlations fd data .  the terminology introducedby the author for distinguishing the different situations involvingmass transfer from the wall to the stream may give rise to someobjections .  for instance, /film cooling/ need not refer only tothe injection of a liquid, since applications involving gas filmcooling exist .  also, his restriction of the term /transpirationcooling/ to refer to the injection through a porous surface of a gasonly of the same composition as the exterior stream does not enjoyuniversal usage .  the influence of mass transfer on heat transferthrough laminar boundary layers and on the transition from laminarto turbulent flow is described, with consideration given to thequestion of the net effect of the stabilizing influence of surfacecooling and the destabilizing influence of injection .  reviewer suggests that author's inaccurate statement to the effectthat /thus far the higher energy conditions do not threatento involve turbulent injection, so turbulent boundary-layer researchenjoys a fairly academic serenity broken only by its own frustrations/be excused on grounds of poetic license, although it ignoresthe efforts being devoted to the pressing practical problemsof erosive burning of solid propellants (possibly the most commonexample of a complete /aerothermochemical/ problem involvingdistributed surface heat and mass transfer with chemical reactionin a flow system) and of effusion cooling of rocket nozzles, bothof which involve turbulent boundary-layer conditions .  authoremphasizes the tedious experimental problems involved in researchon boundary layers with blowing, and notes the desirability of velocitydistribution measurements, especially in turbulent injectionlayers .  the observation that no good data on concentration profilesin the case of the diffusion boundary layer have been publishedmay be an overstatement, since author's bibliography overlooksthe work of j. berger (/contribution a l'etude de l'injectionparietale,/ doctor's thesis, university of paris, memorial despoudres 38 (annex), p. 1,. paris, imprimerie nationale, 1956) .
  the development of supersonic compressors, supersonicdiffusers, and high-speed aircraft points to the increasing importanceof the interaction between shock waves and boundarylayers .  the experimental work reported here is intended to (1) providea better understanding of the nature of the shock-boundarylayerinteraction, (2) serve as a guide and stimulus to theoreticalwork, and (3) develop an empirical method for predicting theeffects of the interaction .  experiments were performed on the reflection of an obliqueshock from a boundary layer on a flat surface at a mach numberof 2.05 .  the effects of shock strength and boundary-layer regimewere explored .  the results are in the form of schlieren photographs, constantdensitycontours found from interferometer photographs, andstatic pressure distributions at the plate surface .
  direct measurements of supersonic local skin friction, using thefloating-element technique, are presented for mach numbers frombulent flow and transition are emphasized, although some measurementsin the laminar regime are included .  the observed effectof compressibility is to reduce the magnitude of turbulent skinfriction by a factor of two at a mach number of 4.5 and areynolds number of about 10 .  the boundary-layer momentum-integral equation for constantpressure is verified within a few per cent by two experimentalmethods .  typical static pressure measurements are presented toshow that transition can be detected by observing disturbancesin pressure associated with changes in displacement thicknessof the boundary layer .  it is found that the turbulent boundary layer cannot be definedexperimentally for values of less than about 2,000, whereis the momentum thickness .  for larger values of there is aunique relationship between local friction coefficient and momentum-thicknessreynolds number at a fixed mach number .  theappendix compares the present measurements at m = 2.5 withexperimental data from other sources .
  experimental data are presented on boundary-layer formation,heat transfer, and skin-friction coefficient at mach numbers ofthe wall of a conical nozzle in the presence of a favorable pressuregradient and several rates of heat transfer .  the reynolds numberbased on momentum thickness varied from 1,500 to 3,500 .comparison is made with data at lower mach numbers and withthe semiempirical theory of von karman .  the existing data upto mach numbers of nine indicate agreement to within 5 percent when compared with a form of the wilson theory, but it isclear that the effects of heat transfer and pressure gradients presentproblems which require extensive study and experiment inthe future .
  the continuity, momentum, and energy differential equationsfor turbulent flow of a compressible fluid are derived, and theapparent turbulent stresses and dissipation function are identified.  a general formula for skin friction, including heat transferto a flat plate, is developed for a thin turbulent boundarylayer in compressible fluids with zero pressure gradient .  curvesare presented giving skin-friction coefficients and heat-transfercoefficients for air for various wall-to-free-stream temperatureratios and free-stream mach numbers .  in the special case when the boundary layer is insulated, thisgeneral formula yields skin-friction coefficients higher than thosegiven by the von karman wall-property compressible-fluid formulabut lower than those given by the von karman incompressible-fluidformula .  heat transfer from the boundary layerto the plate generally increases the friction and heat-transfercoefficients .
  the crocco transformation combined with a mangler transformationis used to carry the boundary-layer problem for axiallysymmetric blunt bodies into a form suitable for direct numericalcomputation without introduction of similarity assumptions .conditions which in the original problem appear at infinity noware brought to a finite straight line, and the body is transformedto a parallel line .  data can be generated on the stagnation linethe equations are a parabolic system of two second-order equations,the boundary-value problem is analogous to the slab problemfor the heat equation .  an implicit difference equation isused to reduce stability difficulties .  special techniques in formingthe difference equation result in a linear system of algebraicequations to be solved on any given line of integration, and thesesolutions are computed from recursion relations generated byback substitution .  for bluntnosed bodies with approach flowmach numbers greater than 8 (approximately), large temperaturegradients occur across a thin boundary layer of dissociatedgas, and it is necessary to use real-gas effects, approximated hereby certain fits to the gas tables .  a case is computed, however,for a lower mach number approach flow using perfect-gas theoryto provide a standard against which similarity solutions may betested .
the laminar jet mixing problems with heat release have been formulated .a general discussion of the solution of these problems is also given .the important parameters of these problems are brought out .  somespecific cases of the jet mixing problem, such as jet mixing of onecompressible fluid, isothermal jet mixing of two compressible fluids,and isovel jet mixing of two compressible fluids with heat release, arediscussed in detail.
the authors give the exact solution for the thermal distributions forthe steady laminar flow of a viscous incompressible fluid between nonparallelplane walls held at a constant temperature . the velocityprofiles are determined with the aid of jacobian elliptic functions byusing the jeffery-hamel solution of the hydrodynamic problem . it isshown that in this special case the energy equation giving the temperatureprofiles can be reduced to an ordinary linear differentialequation with variable coefficients . after the introduction of dimensionlessparameters, numerical solutions are given for diverging andconverging channels with total openings of 10degree for the possiblecombinations of three reynolds numbers and five prandtl numbers .
  a simple expression is derived for the normal injection velocitydistribution theoretically required to maintain a given uniformtemperature along a porous surface in the laminar boundarylayerregion of a compressible flow with a given velocity distributionoutside of the boundary layer .  this expression is valid forany given free-stream mach number but is based on a prandtlnumber of unity and on the assumption that the viscosity coefficientvaries linearly with the temperature .  by using thedorodnitsyn type of transformation, the variation of fluid propertieseven in the case of zero mach number is taken into account.  this study is of particular practical interest in connectionwith the sweat-cooling of turbine blades and of airfoil surfacesin high speed flow .  the method of analysis consists of applyingthe karman-pohlhausen method to both the momentum andenergy boundary-layer equations and of using an additional heatbalance equation, involving the coolant temperature .  a closedformapproximate solution of the equations is then derived .  numericalexamples for flow in the immediate vicinity of a stagnationpoint and for a typical type of flow over a turbine blade aregiven .
an effective means of protecting the surface of a hypersonic re-entryvehicle is to inject small quantities of a lightweight gas into theboundary layer through a porous wall .  this process, which is knownas mass-transfer cooling, protects the surface in two ways .  firstof all, as the injected gas or coolant passes from the reservoir throughthe wall to the surface, a considerable quantity of heat is absorbed asits temperature is raised from the reservoir temperature to the wallsurface temperature .  characteristically, lightweight gases haverelatively high specific heats .secondly, the transfer of mass and enthalpy by convection and diffusionnormal to the surface alters the characteristics of the boundarylayer in such a manner as to reduce the temperature gradient at thewall, and, hence, the conductive heat transfer at the wall .  this issometimes referred to as the blowing effect .
tests have been conducted at a mach number of 6, in the pibal hypersonicfacility, in order to determine the heat-transfer and pressuredistributions over a slender blunted cone at angles of attack oferature ratio, stagnation to wall, was approximately 2.3 .  the modeltested has a sperical nose diameter of 1.0 in., a base diameter of 3.75in., and a cone half-angle of 20 degrees .  the measurements were madeat 5 peripheral stations on the model .in this note the experimental results at a 15 degree angle of attackare presented .  a more detailed analysis of the results for allangles of attack is presented in reference 1 .
in first approximation, dissociated air may be treated as a binarymixture of air atoms and air molecules .  in order to include theeffects of mass transfer into the boundary layer, it becomes necessaryto introduce a third chemical species and hence a second diffusionequation .  we have avoided this complexity by considering the injectionof air molecules into the boundary layer, and hence the theoreticaltreatment is accomplished within the framework of a binary mixture gas .
  author shows that the differential equations defining the minimumdrag body shapes for free molecule flow that were developedand numerically integrated by w. j. carter (amr 11 (1958), rev.realized, however, that numerical or analytical integration of thesecond-order differential equation is unnecessary since, for theflow conditions considered, the first integral to the euler equationcan be written prior to the substitution of the expression definingthe pressure coefficient .
  the mechanics of the kinetic theory of gases is employed todescribe the drag force on the nose of a missile moving in the superaerodynamicregion of the atmosphere .  three separate cases areconsidered--ideal specular reflection, specular-type reflectionfrom a slightly rough surface, and surface absorption followed byrandom emission of the striking molecules .  the calculus of variationsis employed to obtain the differential equation of the noseshape which minimizes the drag force for each of the three cases .the resulting differential equations are then solved by a numericalprocedure .  the drag coefficients for the optimum nose shapes arelikewise determined and these are compared with the drag coefficientsgiven by other nose shapes .  it is further shown thatthe drag coefficients arising when specular-type reflections occurare significantly dependent on the nose shape .  when surfaceabsorption followed by random emission occurs, the drag coefficientis not strongly dependent on either the missile nose shapeor the fineness ratio of the nose .
  by free shock-separated boundary layers, one means that type of separationwhere the flow downstream of the separation region is free toadjust to any direction that may result from the shock-boundary-layerinteraction process .  a detailed model of the free shock-separated turbulentboundary layer is postulated, and the pressure rise followingfrom this model is estimated and compared with experiments .  the resultsare applied to the prediction of separation in an overexpandednozzle .
  it is now known that the hypersonic similarity law derived forslender cones and ogival bodies under the assumption, isapplicable for mach numbers as low as 3 .  this note makes use ofa series development to infer the hypersonic similarity law for unyawedcones from the taylor-maccoll differential equations andassociated boundary conditions .  a simple approximate formulafor the function of the similarity law is obtained,and the drag function computed with this formula is comparedwith kopal's numerical results and, for very slender cones, withvon karman's linearized formula .
the importance of body lift lies in the fact that at moderate angles ofattack and high mach number it can constitute an appreciable part ofthe total lift of a winged missile . in this paper an attempt has beenmade to analyze body lift in hypersonic flow by an approximate methodand, together with a correlation of existing experimental data, toindicate the probable variation of body lift over a wide range of machnumbers extending from low supersonic to hypersonic . the method ofanalysis of hypersonic flow over inclined bodies of revolution employedherein has been denoted as the hypersonic approximation . it is an improvementon the newtonian corpuscular theory of aerodynamics, since itconsiders the centrifugal forces resulting from the curved paths of theair particles in addition to the impact /newtonian/ forces .
  the authors repeat the earlier calculations of piercyand winny (proc. roy. soc. london. ser. a. 140 (1933),earlier works were known to be different from each other .the careful analysis of the present authors shows that theskin-friction coefficient up to the second approximationagrees perfectly with that of piercy and winny .
in ref. 1, an alternative semi-empirical formulation for flutter in areal fluid is given .  for more accurate determination of the empiricalcoefficients, the three-dimensional effect of finite span should betaken into account . following reissner's approximation for largeaspect-ratiorectangular wings, the boundary-value problem governing thedownwash w and the vorticity distribution .
it is well known, in steady flow, that the actual lift curveslope is somewhat less than that predicted by inviscid flowtheory, even at small angles of attack .  as the stall angle is approached,the lift curve slope continually decreases and thus deviateseven more from the theoretical value .  pinkerton employedthe measured circulation to determine the pressure distributionand found that the resulting prediction of the momentis considerably improved over that given by the classical theory .this amounts to replacing the conventional kutta-joukowskicondition with the condition that the total lift should agree withthe measured value, and this, in turn, completely determines theflow pattern .  practically, this is accomplished by giving afictitious camber to the profile .  since potential flow theory isvalid outside of the boundary layer, once the boundary-layerthickness is known, the potential flow may be corrected for thedisplacement thickness and the viscous wake by appropriatesource distributions .  the boundary layer cannot be evaluated,of course, until the potential flow is known and the circulation isapplied .  a criterion to determine the circulation, by generalizingthe kutta-joukowski condition, was proposed by prestonand spence by assuming that the pressure at the trailing edgeshall have the same value when determined from the potentialflowvalues above and below the airfoil .  this procedure givesqualitative information concerning viscous effects in steadyflow .
  in some cooling problems associated with high energy flowsit may be convenient to localize strongly the cooling, as for exampleby injecting a coolant through an upstream porous strip,and to depend on the insulating properties of the boundary layerto reduce, or to eliminate completely the need for further coolingon the surface downstream of the highly cooled section .  thisupstream cooling technique may be of interest in connection withoptical windows in hypersonic wind tunnels, and on radomes,wings, and bodies of high-speed aircraft and missiles .  in this paper a method for investigating the insulating propertiesof a laminar compressible boundary layer on a two-dimensionalsurface with zero heat transfer is presented .  the physicalsituation considered thus corresponds to the case in which theheat transfer downstream of the strongly cooled section is completelyeliminated .  of practical concern is how the temperatureof the uncooled surface varies in the downstream directionfrom its low initial value and thus how the low energy layerestablished by the upstream cooling insulates the downstreamsurface .  the karman integral method extended to both the momentumand energy partial differential equations of the boundary layerhas been used .  the station, at which cooling and or injectionceases, corresponds to a discontinuity in boundary conditionsand thus in solutions .  at this point the flux of mass, momentum,and energy within the boundary layer has been made continuousby the introduction of three additional parameters in the velocityand stagnation enthalpy profiles .  thus the velocity and stagnationenthalpy profiles have both been taken as sixth degreepolynomials .  the resulting two integral-differential equationsare then solved for two unknown functions of the distance alongthe wall .  these two functions are related to the boundary-layerthickness and to the wall temperature .  initial conditions correspondingto a given initial wall temperature and an initial boundary-layerthickness are prescribed .  exact closed-form solutionsfor the case of zero axial pressure gradient are obtained .  forflows with significant pressure gradients, numerical solutionsare required in general .  several numerical examples of practicalinterest are presented .
  this report presents a theoretical analysis of the boundarylayer at an axisymmetric stagnation point with large rates ofair injection .  the results of a previous investigation indicatedthat for localized mass transfer in the stagnation region, therates of injection are considerably greater than those usuallytreated .  the exact stagnation-point boundary-layer equationsare integrated numerically for an approximate representationof the gas properties .  the two-point boundary conditions aretreated in a new manner which is useful for various boundarylayerand mixing problems .  the exact solutions indicate thatfor large rates of injection the boundary layer is closely representedby an inner isothermal shear flow and by and exterior,relatively thin region, in which the flow variables change to theirfree-stream values .  an integral method based on profilessuggested by the exact solutions is developed and shown to leadto accurate predictions of the integral thicknesses which areof interest for a study of the downstream influence of the stagnation-pointmass transfer .
  this report presents a theoretical analysis of the boundarylayer at an axisymmetric stagnation point with large rates ofhelium injection .  the exact stagnation-point boundary-layerequations are integrated numerically with approximate representationsof the gas properties .  the treatment of the twopointboundary-value problem employed herein is shown to beuseful for various boundary-layer and mixing problems .  theexact solutions indicate that for large rates of injection theboundary layer can be represented by a thick, inner layer ofconstant shear, temperature, and composition and by a relativelythin outer region in which the flow variables adjust to their freestreamvalues .  an inviscid-flow model is shown to lead to accuratepredictions of this shear layer and will thus provide sufficientlyaccurate profiles for use in the study of the downstreaminfluence of stagnation-point mass transfer .  the heat transferto the stagnation point is also considered .  tabulations of theeigenvalues for a variety of wall conditions and injection ratesare given .
the/second method/of lyapunov is the most general approach currently inthe theory of stability of dynamic systems . after a rigorous exposition of the fundamental concepts of this theory, applications are made to/a/stability of linear stationary, linear nonslationary, and nonlinearsystems,./b/estimation of transient behavior,./c/control-systemoptimization,./d/design of relay servos . the discussion is essentiallyself-contained, with emphasis on the thorough development of the principalideas and mathematical tools . only systems governed by differentialequations are treated here . systems governed by differenceequations are the subject of a companion paper .
  a polar-controlled missile is one in which manoeuvreis carried out by rotations about roll and pitch axes,that is, in the manner of a conventional aeroplane .  thispaper discusses some problems in the application of thisform of control to homing missiles .  in comparison with the alternative cartesian configuration,this method presents some special designproblems .  in the former case, it is often possible toresolve the motion into two planes and consider thepitch and yaw control systems as independent twodimensionalproblems .  this simplification is not possiblein the case of polar control and it is usuallynecessary to consider the whole three-dimensional system.  the equations of motion which result are, ingeneral, not susceptible to analysis .  because of this,the design of control systems requires extensive use ofsimulators .
  the integral method of belotserkovskii has been carried out tothe first approximation for arbitrary blunt axisymmetric bodiesin supersonic or hypersonic flight .  this method is direct, inthat it gives the surface-pressure distribution and shock shape fora prescribed body .  results obtained by numerical integrationfor several body shapes at several mach numbers are comparedto experimental results with good agreement .  it is also shownthat the method can be successfully applied to pointed bodieswith attached shock .  in the stagnation region, simple relationshipsare found from the equations of the first approximationwhich connect the surface-velocity gradient, shock curvature,shock-detachment distance, and body curvature .  these relationsare also correlated with experiment for a variety of shapesas a function of mach number .  the correlations permit a rapidestimate of the stagnation-point velocity gradient, important forheat-transfer calculations, for any blunt body from the shockstand-off distance .  a method for a higher approximation is described,for which, in contrast to the higher approximations ofbelotserkovskii, a large number of simultaneous total differentialequations with unknown parameters does not occur .  one formof this method has been studied numerically .  results are givenwhich, though only partially successful, indicate the amount ofimprovement to be expected from a higher approximation .
in recent years great use has been made of approximate methods forthe determination of the pressure distribution on blunt-nosed bodiesand afterbodies at high mach numbers .  for quasi-spherical bodiesit has been suggested that modified newtonian theory in combinationwith a prandtl-meyer expansion be used on the nose portion, the twolaws being matched at the point where the pressure gradients are equal .no simple approximation, however, has been found for flat-nosed bodies .as for the pressure distribution on the afterbody, the blast-waveanalogy has been suggested for general nose shapes but particularafterbody profiles .the purpose of the present note is to compare these approximateestimates with a more accurate determination of the flow field abouta hemisphere-cylinder in an ideal gas flow .  it was felt that sinceexperimental investigations in air at this mach number are scarceand very difficult to obtain, the comparison would be of interest .  thebasis of comparison is the flow field as it results from a numericalintegration of the exact equations governing the motion of the idealfluid .
in a recent letter, m. h. bertram presents some data onflows at m = 6.85 around 10 half-angle cones with bluntedtips .  since the demarcation between the supersonic and hypersonicregimes is not sharp and since one expects hypersonic flowsto be generally similar to those at lower mach numbers--especiallywhere viscous effects do not predominate throughout theentire field of interest--it is of some value to compare bertram'sresults with those obtained by giese and bergdolt for 15 halfanglecones at m = 2.45 .  following the observation by chartersand stein that drag coefficient measurements on blunted conesimply a reynolds number effect, giese and bergdolt study theconvergence to conical flow of the perturbed flow about a conewith truncated tip .  they employ the mach-zehnder interferometerand the conical flow criterion as analytical tools .
  an experimental investigation wasconducted in the galcit hypersonicwind tunnel to determine flow characteristicsfor a series of blunt bodies at anominal mach number of 5.8 and free-streamreynolds numbers per in. ofmeasured values for the pressurecoefficient distributions are compared witha modified newtonian expression.  the agreement is very good for thethree-dimensional bodies and isfair for the circular cylinder transverse to thefree-stream flow direction .  acomplete report of the investigation is given ina galcit hypersonic windtunnel memorandum .
  it is demonstrated that the shock-expansion method can begeneralized to treat a large class of hypersonic flows, only one ofwhich is flow about airfoils .  this generalized method predictsthe whole flow field, including shock-wave curvatures and resultingvorticity, providing that (1) disturbances originating onthe surface of an object are largely absorbed in shock waves withwhich they interact and (2) disturbances associated with thedivergence of stream lines in tangent planes to the surface are ofsecondary importance compared to those associated with thecurvature of stream lines in planes normal to the surface .  it isshown that these conditions may be met in three-dimensional aswell as two-dimensional hypersonic flows .  when they are met,surface streamlines may be taken as geodesics, which, in turn,may be related to the geometry of the surface .  the validity of the generalized shock-expansion method forthree-dimensional hypersonic flows is checked by comparing predictionsof theory with experiment for the surface pressures andbow shock waves of bodies of revolution .  the bodies treatedare two ogives having fineness ratios of 3 and 5 .  tests were conductedat mach numbers from 2.7 to 6.3 and angles of attack upto 15 degrees in the 10- by 14-in. supersonic wind tunnel of theames aeronautical laboratory .  at the lower angles of attack,theory and experiment approach agreement when the ratio ofmach number to fineness ratio--that is, the hypersonic similarityparameter--exceeds 1 .  at the larger angles of attack, theorytends to break down, as would be expected, on the leeward sidesof the bodies .  as a final point, it is inquired if the two-dimensionality ofinviscid hypersonic flows has any counterpart in hypersonicboundary-layer flows .  the question is answered in the affirmative,and results of experiment are employed to provide a partialcheck of this conclusion .
  the problem of optimal zoom climb maneuvering of a turbojetaircraft has been investigated using the mayer formulation of thecalculus of variations .  the euler-lagrange equations governingoptimum symmetric flight have been integrated numerically bydigital computation .  discontinuities in thrust arising from turbojet afterburnerblowout have been treated, and conditions which must be satisfiedacross the interface generated by the discontinuity have beenderived .  arbitrary control techniques have been compared with theoptimum, and it has been found that performance is relativelyinsensitive to piloting technique unless a time limitation is imposedwhich requires high maneuvering load factors .
if the boundary-layer equations for a gas aretransformed by mises's transformation, aswas done by karman   tsion for the flowalong a flat plate of a gas with unit prandtlnumber, the computation of solutions issimplified, and use may be made of previouslycomputed solutions for an incompressible fluid .for any value of the prandtl number, andany variation of the viscosity with the temperaturet, after the method has been appliedto flow along a flat plate (a problem otherwise treatedby crocco), the flow near the forwardstagnation point of a cylinder is calculated withdissipation neglected, both with the effect ofgravity on the flow neglected and with this effectretained for vertical flow past a horizontalcylinder .  the approximations involved by the neglectof gravity are considered generally,and the cross-drift is calculated when a horizontalstream flows past a vertical surface .when, and the boundary is heat-insulated,it is shown that the boundary-layerequations for a gas may be made identical, whatever bethe main stream, with the boundarylayerequations for an incompressible fluid with a certain,determinable, main stream .  themethod is also applied to free convection at a flat platevariation with altitude of the state of the surroundingfluid neglected) and to laminar flow inplane wakes, but for plane jets the conditions,previously imposed by howarth,are also imposed here in order to obtain simple solutions .
it is proposed to show that the boundary-layer equation ofcompressible flow can be reduced to that of incompressibleflow .  such work was initiated by stewartson and by rott andcrabtree .  in the following some of the restrictions imposed byreferences 1 and 2 will be removed, and it will be shown that thetransformation from compressible boundary layer to incompressibleboundary layer can be applied to the laminar, as well asturbulent, case .  a direct method will be used for this purpose .
  the stewartson-illingworth transformation is applied to theintegral momentum equation for compressible boundary-layerflow, leaving the x-coordinate transformation unspecified, however.  it is shown that the transformed equation is the integralmomentum equation for incompressible flow if (a) the effect ofcompressibility on the boundary-layer shape parameter h can berepresented byand (b) the x-coordinate transformation is chosen to be suitablyrelated to the ratio of skin-friction coefficients in compressibleand incompressible flows .  experimental evidence is presented which shows that condition(a) is satisfied for turbulent boundary layers up to m = 5 .an x-transformation is chosen according to (b) and an equation ispresented which gives the turbulent boundary-layer growth incompressible flow in terms of a simple quadrature .  the predictionsof this equation are then compared with some measurementson wind-tunnel nozzles .
in calculations of thermodynamic heating for high speed missiles parametershave been used based on relationships which hold for constantpropertyfluids . the validity of this procedure has been verifiedrecently in a survey of heat transfer in which a relationship for thereference temperature was developed . a calculation procedure forlaminar and turbulent boundary layers, based on this relationship, isgiven .
  a reverse-flow theorem for compressible nonsteady flow, validwithin the limits of linearized theory, is derived .  this theoremgives a general class of relations between linearized solutions forlifting surfaces in direct and reverse flow .  based on the same considerationsused to establish the theorem, an adjoint variationalprinciple, which may be useful in approximate solutions of nonsteadylifting surface problems, is obtained .  to illustrate theuses of the reverse-flow theorem, it is applied to the determinationof relations between aerodynamic coefficients in direct and reverseflow and to the obtaining of influence functions for totallift, pitching moment, and rolling moment for a wing oscillatingwith arbitrary motion and surface deformation, in terms of thepressure distributions for simpler cases in reverse flow .
  explicit solutions are obtained for the bending-torsion flutterof a two-dimensional airfoil in incompressible flow under theassumptions that the theodorsen function, c(k) is set equal to areal constant, and the diagonal virtual mass terms are negligible .for the case of small bending to torsion frequency ratio, acomparison is made of these quasi-steady solutions with anearlier empirical expression suggested by theodorsen and garrickfor the nonsteady case, and the effect of the c(k) function isindicated .  the importance of the c.g. location for these smallcases is re-emphasized, and the possibility of flutter at zeroair speed is indicated .
the laminar boundary layer in axial flow abouta long thin cylinder is investigated by twomethods .  one (2) is a pohlhausen method,based on a velocity profile chosen to representconditions near the surface as accurately aspossible .  the other (3) is an asymptotic seriessolution, valid far enough downstream fromthe nose for the boundary-layer thickness tohave become large compared with the cylinderradius .  another series solution (due to seban,bond and kelly) is known, valid near enoughto the nose for the boundary layer to be thincompared with the cylinder radius .  thepohlhausen solution shows good agreement withboth series, near and far from the nose, andenables an interpolation to be made (4) betweenthem in the extensive range of distances fromthe nose for which neither is applicable .  thefinal recommended curves, for the variationalong the cylinder of skin friction, boundarylayerdisplacement area and momentum defectarea, are displayed in graphical and tabularform (figure 1 and table 1) and are expected tobe correct to within about 2 .  the velocity near the wall is closely proportionalto the logarithm of the distance from theaxis,. this is the profile used in the pohlhausenmethod .  the analogy with the distributionof mean velocity in turbulent flow over a flatplate is discussed at the end of 2 .
a correction is made for the equation to compute the ratioof the displacement thickness on a cylinder to the correspondingthickness on a flat plate .
the equations of motion of compressible viscous flow with vanishingpressure gradient past a plane are integrated in semi-convergentexpressions, for the case when the physical constants depend on temperatureand the prandtl number is close to unity .simple expressions are obtained for the temperature and velocity distributionsin the boundary layer, the drag coefficient, and their dependenceon the physical constants,.they contain the well-known resultsand several new ones .for the case when the temperature of the boundary is either above, ornot much below, the temperature of the main flow, the results obtainedclosely agree with crocco's numerical computations .
  second-order shock-expansion theory is utilized to obtain equationsfor the initial normal force curve slope, initial pitching moment curveslope, and zero-lift wave drag for several type bodies of revolution .bodies considered are the cone-cylinder, cone-cylinder-frustum, conecylinder-frustum-booster,cone-frustum, and cone-frustum booster .
  in a recent paper, the problem of a /couette-type/ flow inwhich the fixed wall is porous has been considered .  theresults quoted in the above reference can be obtained rigorouslyby the method stated below in which a different interpretation toone of the parameters is made .
  recently, it was observed that the two existing boundarylayertexts (references 1 and 2) did not contain a solutionfor the case of couette flow with a constant, uniformly distributedsuction or blowing .  thus, the following analysis considersa /couette-type/ flow between a stationary flat surface anda slightly inclined flat plate moving at a constant velocity .  inaddition, the flow is subjected to a constant, uniformly distributedsuction or blowing at the fixed surface .
  temperature profiles and heat-transfer rates of established incompressibleflow through an annulus channel with porous wallsof constant temperatures are determined at different injection rates .axial conduction and viscous dissipation are, as usual, neglected .injecting fluid is tacitly assumed to have the same temperature asthe porous wall .
  article is a continuation of an earlier note on papers by lion a semiinfinite plate in a uniform shear flow .  li had deducedfrom the form of his equations that stream vorticity caused an inducedpressure gradient in the flow .  later papers by li and murray(amr 15(1962), rev. 7157) support the induced pressure gradienttheory .  the author notes, however, that the mathematics usedby li and murray are not acceptable and the problem thus not resolved.  the present note sets up simple models of complete flowsexaminable by elementary means .  author holds that analysesdemonstrate conclusively that no pressure gradient is induced inthe boundary layer on a flat plate in a limited region of shear flow .he notes that the original question in the case of unbounded shearremains obscure--and anyway an unlimited shear layer is not ofgreat practical importance .
  by transformation of variables, the problem of a simple shear flow ofa compressible fluid over a flat plate is reduced to the correspondingproblem for an incompressible fluid .  the prandtl number of the compressiblefluid is assumed to be unity and its viscosity to be a linearfunction of temperature .
  the use of piston theory was recently advocated for supersonicaeroelastic analyses, including the problem of panel flutter,and this has stimulated the investigation reported here .  linear piston theory is mainly considered, but some effects ofintroducing higher order terms are discussed .  flutter of rectangular simply supported panels and of ellipticallyshaped clamped-edge panels is considered, and some justificationis provided for the use of /static/ aerodynamic forcesand the neglect of aerodynamic damping .  hence, it is concludedthat ackeret loading gives more exact results than piston theory .  solution of the flutter equations is made by applying galerkin'smethod to a rayleigh-type analysis using assumed modes ofdeformation .
  the problem of panel flutter of rectangular simply supportedplates subjected to supersonic flow over one surface is treatedtheoretically .  the assumption is made, and subsequently verified,that the /static/ approximation to the aerodynamic flutterforces yields flutter boundaries with satisfactory accuracy formach numbers greater than about 2 .  two panel flutter analysesare performed using this static approximation in conjunction withthin-plate theory--one employs aerodynamic strip theory, theother aerodynamic surface theory .  the influence of machnumber, dynamic pressure, panel aspect ratio, and midplanestress on the panel thickness required to prevent flutter is determinedfor extensive ranges of these parameters .
  plates with attachments to heavier members along theedges can be described as having edges elastically restrainedagainst rotation, in many cases uniformly along each edge .  atthe edges, setting slope, when is the edge bendingmoment with always positive, the elastic restraint can be analyticallydefined with describing respectively,clamped and simply supported edges .  in this note natural frequenciesof such plates are calculated mainly following thenomenclature of dana young .
  recently, several authors have investigated the boundarylayer in a shear flow .  in this note, an exact solution of thenavier-stokes equations will be presented, which represents theboundary layer along an infinite flat plate with uniform suctionsituated in a shear flow .
in view of the recent controversy between li and glauert on the natureof the solution of the boundary-layer equations when the externalflow is rotational, it seems worthwhile to draw attention to a certainexact solution of the navier-stokes equations which lends support toglauert's point of view .
  new methods are presented for the analysis of transient heatflow in complex structures, leading to drastic simplifications inthe calculation and the possibility of including nonlinear and surfaceeffects .  these methods are in part a direct application ofsome general variational principles developed earlier for linearthermodynamics .  they are further developed in the particularcase of purely thermal problems to include surface andboundary-layer heat transfer, nonlinear systems with temperature-dependentparameters, and radiation .  the concepts ofthermal potential, dissipation function, and generalized thermalforce are introduced, leading to ordinary differential equationsof the lagrangian type for the thermal flow field .  because of theparticular nature of heat flow phenomena, compared with dynamics,suitable procedures must be developed in order to formulateeach problem in the simplest way .  this is done by treating anumber of examples .  the concepts of penetration depth andtransit time are introduced and discussed in connection with onedimensionalflow .  application of the general method to theheating of a slab, with temperature-dependent heat capacity,shows a substantial difference between the heating and coolingprocesses .  an example of heat flow analysis of a supersonic wingstructure by the present method is also given and requires onlyextremely simple calculations .  the results are found to be ingood agreement with those obtained by the classical and muchmore elaborate procedures .
  extension of previous analyses, indicating the possibility ofextending the thermodynamics of irreversible processes to systemswhich are not in the vicinity of an equilibrium state and for whichonsager's relations are not verified .  this involves generalizationsbeyond the narrow field of heat transfer and to principles of widerrange than those of current nonequilibrium thermodynamics .
  a sublayer region is introduced in which the intensity of turbulencegrows at a prescribed rate .  the decrease in wall shearstress due to fluid injection into the boundary layer is found underthe hypothesis that the effect of injection is restricted to thesublayer region .  experimental measurements of the velocityprofiles with fluid injection substantiate this hypothesis .  thetheoretical decrease in wall shear stress is in good agreementwith experiment,. the solution is particularly simple and for smallvalues of the injection parameter it contains no arbitrary parameters.  the theory provides a similarity parameter which differsfrom the one in general use .
  the problems of heat transfer in turbulent shear flow along asmooth wall are discussed from the point of view of von karman'swell-known 1939 paper on the analogy between fluid friction andheat transfer .  methods for extending the analysis to higherprandtl numbers are suggested .
a method of calculating the total quantity of heat that passes through a unit area from zero time to time t is developed . allowance is made for surface resistance by regarding each contact resistance as an additionallayer of the appropriate thermal resistance and zero heatcapacity
  by consideration of antisymmetrical, as well as symmetrical,buckling configurations, the theoretical shear buckling stresses ofclamped rectangular flat plates are evaluated more correctly than inprevious work .  the results given, which represent the average of upperand lower-limit solutions obtained by the lagrangian multiplier method,are within percent of the true buckling stresses .
  analyses have been made of the effects of coupled chemical rateprocesses in external inviscid hypersonic airflows at high enthalpylevels .  exact (numerical) solutions have been obtained by theinverse method for inviscid airflow over a near-spherical noseunder flight conditions where substantial nonequilibrium prevailsthrough the nose region .  typical conditions considered includenose radii of the order of 1 ft at an altitude of 250,000 ft andvelocities of 15,000 and 23,000 ft per sec .  the results illustrate the general importance of the couplingamong the reactions considered .  these included dissociationrecombination,bimolecular-exchange, and ionization reactions .the exact solutions show the bimolecular, no exchange reactionsto be important in blunt-nose flow for the kinetics of no and n,as they are in the case of a plane shock wave .  an importantdifference between blunt-nose flow and plane shock flow, however,is the gasdynamic expansion in the curved shock layer of theformer .  this expansion reduces post-shock reaction rates .  as aconsequence, in the regime studied the oxygen and nitrogen-atomconcentrations tend to freeze in the nose region at levels belowthose for infinite-rate equilibrium .  the reduction below theequilibrium dissociation level can be large, particularly fornitrogen dissociation at higher velocities .  in the regime considered, the chemical kinetics are dominatedby two-body collision processes .  the inviscid nose flow, includingcoupled nonequilibrium phenomena, is thus amenable tobinary scaling for a given velocity .  the binary scaling is demonstratedfor a range of altitude and scale by correlation of theexact solutions for given velocity and a constant product ofambient density and nose radius .  this similitude, which canalso scale viscous nonequilibrium and radiation phenomena in theshock layer, provides a useful flexibility for hypersonic testingwhere it is applicable .  the afterbody inviscid-flow problem is briefly discussed in thelight of the results for the nose flow .
  a mathematical treatment of the coupled motion ofhydrodynamic flow and electromagnetic fields isgiven .  two simplifying assumptions are introduced ..  first,the conductivity of the medium is infinite, andsecond, the motion is described by a plane shock wave .various orientations of the plane of the shock andthe magnetic field are discussed separately, and theextreme relativistic and unrelativistic behavior isexamined .  special consideration is given to the behaviorof weak shocks, that is, of sound waves .  it isinteresting to note that the waves degenerate into commonsound waves and into common electromagneticwaves in the extreme cases of very weak and very strongmagnetic fields .
  an interpretation of the de hoffman-teller shock-waveequations for an infinitely conductingmedium is given analogous to the classical interpretation ofthe ordinary hydrodynamic shock-waveequations of rankine and hugoniot .  two cases of interestare considered as a consequence of this theory .it is shown that weak magnetic fields in interstellar cloudswill be amplified, and, if external mechanismsare available to reduce the compressional effects of shockwaves, the field will reach a value,where p is the pressure .  also, some aspects of the internalmotions of prominences are considered ,. it isshown that gauss will yield results in accord withthe observational material .
  this report concerns the problem of constructing solutions fortransonic flows over symmetric airfoils .  the aspect of the problememphasized is, of necessity, not how to form a solution for compressibleflow but how to simplify the initial phase of the problem, namely, themapping of the incompressible flow .  in the case of the symmetricjoukowski airfoil without circulation, the mapping is relatively simple,but the coefficients in the power series are difficult to evaluate .  asa result, the problem requires simplification .  instead of the exactincompressible flow past the airfoil, an approximate flow is used, whichis derived from a combination of source and sink .  this flow differsonly slightly from the exact one when the thickness is small .  by thesame method, the flow with circulation is also considered .  after the incompressible-flow functions are approximated in thisfashion, the numerical calculation of the corresponding compressibleflow, by the hodograph theory, does not present anyessential difficulty .
tables of thermodynamic and transport propertiesof air, argon, carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, hydrogen,nitrogen, oxygen, and steam .
this paper considers the implications of recent advances in knowledge of the behaviour of boundary layers in supersonic flow . only the simplest case is considered-dashthat of the two-dimensional boundary layer on aflat plate, with nominal zero longitudinal pressure and temperaturegradients .it is shown that the empirical/intermediate enthalpy/used with successin approximations for skin friction, etc., of laminar boundary layers isclosely the same as the mean enthalpy with respect to velocity .furthermore, the mean enthalpics of laminar and turbulent boundarylayers may be the same . a nonrigorous approach is made to the problemsof self-induced pressure gradients, and the indications are that theireffects on laminar skin friction, etc., may become noticeable at machnumbers greater than 5 and they increase as the surface temperaturebuilds up towards zero heat-transfer conditions . the effects withturbulent boundary layers may not be so severe .finally, the results are applied to give an idea of the magnitude of thedrag and aerodynamic heating problems up to m 10, and one result isthat, if there is any conflict at the higher mach numbers betweensurface conditions required for high radiative emissivity and thosewhich may be thought necessary for preserving a laminar boundary layer,then it may be better to choose the former .
  a study is made of the stationary convectionof an electrically conducting liquid in the spacebetween two parallel plates, heated to differenttemperatures, in the presence of a magneticfield .  the distribution of velocity, temperature,and induced fields are found, and the convectiveheat flow is calculated .
  stationary convective motion of a conducting fluidbetween vertical parallel plates in a magneticfield is considered .  an exact solution of themagnetohydrodynamic equations is obtainedfor the case of a constant vertical temperaturegradient .  the critical value of grasshof'snumber is determined for the case when thetemperature of both plates is the same .
it is shown that the two-dimensional base pressure problems relating tobase bleed into the wake of blunt-trailing-edge airfoils, or theinteraction between an external supersonic or sonic slipstream with asonic or subsonic jet stream of a jet engine, can be calculated bytheoretical considerations . constant-pressure, isoenergetic, turbulentmixing between the streams and the stagnant fluid in the wake isassumed . the theoretical calculations are in good agreement with theexperimental results .
  the supersonic flow about a blunt body ofrevolution for gases at chemicalequilibrium .  a method to determine the shockwave, and its location, about a bodyof revolution moving at supersonic speeds is given .the method provides also the meansto compute the flow characteristics in the shock layer .the fluid in which the motiontakes place is assumed to be in chemical equilibriumwithin the shock layer ,. its thermochemicalproperties must be known .  the essentialnew features of the method are ..a) it solves the direct problem, i. e., the initial dataare the conditions upstream andthe body shape ,. b) the integration of the fundamentalequations is done in the physicalplane and the difficulties inherent to other, less direct,mathematical formulationsof the problem are avoided .  a physical interpretation ofthe method is made whichis in accord with the analytical definition of the problem .
  accurate experimental data are given on the shape and the locationof detached shock waves on cones and spheres at mach numbers from 1.17to 1.81 .  the data are correlated to obtain equations that describe theshock waves .  this knowledge of the shock waves should be useful incalculations of the pressure distribution and the pressure drag of thefore part of cones and spheres .  the experimental data on shock wavesare compared with theory .
  an exact solution and a closely concurring approximateenergy solution are given for the buckling of an infinitely longflat plate under combined shear and transverse direct stresswith edges elastically restrained against rotation .  it was foundthat an appreciable fraction of the critical stress in pure shearmay be applied to the plate without any reduction in the transversecompressive stress necessary to produce buckling .  aninteraction formula in general use was shown to be decidedlyconservative for the range in which it is supposed to apply .
  results are given of local skin-friction measurements in turbulentboundary layers over an equivalent air mach number range from 0.2 to 9.9and an over-all reynolds number variation of 2x10 to 100x10 .  directforce measurements were made by means of a floating element .  flowswere two-dimensional over a smooth flat surface with essentially zeropressure gradient and with adiabatic conditions at the wall .  air andhelium were used as working fluids .  an equivalence parameter forcomparing boundary layers in different working fluids is derived andthe experimental verification of the parameter is demonstrated .experimental results are compared with the results obtained by severalmethods of calculating skin friction in the turbulent boundary layer .
  this report is restricted to theresistance of bodies of revolution andof cylindrical bodies of infinite lengthmoving with uniform velocity ina compressible fluid .  in the case of bodiesof revolution it will be assumedthat the direction of the movement isparallel to the axis of symmetry .it will be assumed that the fluid satisfiesthe equation of state of perfectgases, i. e. const., where p denotesthe pressure, the density andt the absolute temperature .  in additionto obeying this equation thefluid is characterized by the statementthat the intrinsic energy of theunit mass amounts to where forsimplicity's sake the specific heatwill be expressed in work ratherthan heat units .  the ratio betweenthe specific heat at constant pressureand the specific heat at constantvolume will be denoted by .  it isknown that the value of x dependsupon the number of degrees of freedomof the molecules,. if this numberis denoted by n .  for airthe value x = 1.4 will be used .the limiting case x = 1 willbe referred to as that of aassumed that in the rangeconsidered and are independent ofthe temperature .
an extension of work of lock and rogers and the result of cooperation byn.p.l., r.a.e. and members of the british aircraft industry to achieve a satisfactory design for an aircraft cruising at low supersonic speeds . knowledge of shock-wave prediction, onset of wave drag and shockinducedseparation allows the basic design to be generalized for a widerange of parameters . unpublished work by bagley on the relation ofaerodynamic coefficients and geometry is used . the role of upper surfacevelocity distribution is noted and methods for predicting pressuredistributions with shock waves are reviewed for both subsonic andtransonic flows .
the use of boundary-layer control to increase the separation-freemargins of mach number and lift coefficient beyond the cruise point ofhigh-speed aircraft may often be preferred to design changes that impair the cruising performance or the landing and take-off characteristics .the factors that influence the choice of method and details of its applicationare discussed, emphasising particularly the need to maintaineffectiveness over most of the chord to cover the wide range of separationpositions encountered as the shock moves over the wing with changingflight conditions .research at the national physical laboratory that has embraced highvelocityblowing, vane and air-jet vortex generators, and, in apreliminary way, distributed suction, is briefly described . therelative merits of the various methods are discussed, and some resultsachieved in their application are given .for vortex generators, the importance is stressed of the vortex pathsdetermined by the interactions of neighbouring vortices and theirimages . thus, systems of counter-rotating vortices always leave thesurface in pairs and lose their effectiveness . co-rotating systems aretherefore preferred for many applications . blowing, which in windtunneltests gives results as good as or better than vortex generatorsand does not have the disadvantage of a drag penalty at cruise, has notyet been assessed in flight . air-jet vortex generators, which wouldalso avoid the drag penalty, show promise of producing significanteffects with relatively small blowing pressures and quantities .
  this is the last part of the author's theory of the stabilityof plane laminar motion .  (for parts 1 and 2, cf. the samequart. 3, 117-142, 218-234 (1945),. these rev. 7,225,226 .)the stability character of a viscous fluid is considered indetail .  the author proceeds first to give a proof of a criterionof stability due to heisenberg ..  if a velocity profile has annumber and phase velocity, the disturbance with the samewave number is unstable in the real fluid when the reynoldsnumber is sufficiently large .  this destabilizing effect of viscosityis one of the most interesting phenomena in thegeneral stability theory,. its physical and mathematical significanceis carefully discussed .  the author then discusses the behavior of the so-calledneutral curve for the two characteristic types ofvelocity distribution, the boundary layer type profile andthe symmetrical profile .  the asymptotic behavior of theneutral curve is discussed first .  the main difference betweenprofiles with and without a point of inflection is that the twobranches of the neutral curve approach and forprofiles with a flex, but both converge to for the profilewithout a flex .  the most important results are as follows .for sufficiently large reynolds number r .  (2) there alwaysexists a minimum r below which the motion is stable .  asimilar result was obtained by synge from energy considerations.  synge found a limiting curve below which themotion is necessarily stable .  the author's discussion of theasymptotic behavior of the curves shows furtherthat there always exists a maximum value of a beyondwhich the motion is stable for all reynolds numbers .  hencethe qualitative shape of the curve is determined .  the author proceeds to show that simple approximateexpressions for the stability limit can be obtained from hisgeneral analysis for a given velocity profile .  these approximatestability limits for plane poiseuille flow and blasiusflow are found to be r=5906 and r=502 .  the reynoldsnumbers are based on the width of the channel and thedisplacement thickness, respectively .  finally, the methodfor computing the complete instability curve is presentedand the plane poiseuille case and the blasius problem workedout in detail .  the stability limit for blasius flow had beengiven before by tollmien and schlichting .  the present moreexact computations agree well with tollmien's result as faras the minimum critical reynolds number is concerned .the value found here is r=420 .  the neutral curve forpoiseuille motion had not been obtained before .  the minimumcritical number here is found to be r=5314 .  theagreement with the estimate from the simple criterion mentionedabove is thus very good .  a discussion of the physical significance of the viscouseffects and of future developments concludes the paper .
  recent experimental studies of transition from laminar toturbulent shear flows are reviewed .  certain common featuresare emphasized and related to the stability theories of viscousshear layers .  the three-dimensional character, the unsteadiness,and the nonlinear and random behavior of the latter stagesof the transition process are also examined .
  the correct design of intermediate vertical stiffeners on web platessubjected to shear becomes very important whenthe web plates are designedto operate at loads close to their buckling loads .this paper presents detailsof an extensive series of tests conducted onstiffened web plates subjected toshear .  from the analysis of the results obtainedfrom these tests, new empiricalrelationships between the flexural rigidity andspacing of the intermediatestiffeners and the buckling stress of the stiffenedweb plate have been obtained .  one interesting and important feature ofthese new relationships is thatthey define more clearly than hitherto the differencein the behaviour of singleanddouble-sided stiffeners .
a series of experiments was performed to define the flow field on theupper surface of high aspect ratio swept wings and narrow delta wings at high angles of attack .it was found that near the root section of either type of wing the flowis conical . the edge of the vortex sheet which originates at the leadingedge is a straight line whose position relative to the leading edgedepends only on incidence . on swept wings, the vortex edge turns downstreamas soon as the vortex sheet covers the front half of the wingchord, and the flow under the vortex sheet outboard of that turningpoint is uniform and parallel to the leading edge of the wing . on narrowdelta wings, the conical symmetry persists almost to the trailingedge .
  a systematic study of induced pressures on a seriesof bodies of revolution with varying nose bluntnesshas been made by using the method of characteristicsfor a perfect gas .  the fluid mediums investigatedwere air and helium and the mach number rangewas from 5 to 40 .  a study of representative shockshapes was also made .  flow parameters obtainedfrom the blast-wave analogy gave good correlations ofinduced pressures and shock shapes .  the inducedpressurecorrelations yielded empirical equations forair and helium which cover the complete range ofnose bluntness considered .  (nose fineness ratiosvaried from 0.4 to 4.)  available experimental resultswere in good agreement with the characteristicssolutions .  properties connected with the concept ofhypersonic similitude enabled correlations of thecalculations to be made with respect to nose shape,mach number, and ratio of specific heats .
  the title problems were solved for the two cases ..  (1) uniformtransverse loading, (2) a concentrated force at the free corner .  afunction is chosen to exactly satisfy the biharmonic equationwhile the boundary conditions are enforced at a number of pointsplied at discrete points around the boundary for each of the fourproblems and the resulting 35 simultaneous equations were solvedon an ibm 704 .  tables listing the values of deflection and bendingmoments are presented .  this paper provides useful informationon the solution of these problems which are intractable by analyticalmethods .
  shock shapes were observed and static pressures were measuredon spherically-blunted cones at a nominal mach number of 5.8 over arange of reynolds numbers per inch from 97,000 to 238,000, for anglesof yaw from 0 to 8 .  six combinations of the bluntness ratios 0.4, 0.8,and 1.064 with the cone half angles 10, 20, and 40 were used indetermining the significant parameters governing pressure distribution .  the pressure distribution on the spherical nose for both yawedand unyawed bodies is predicted quite accurately by the modifiednewtonian theory given by, where is the angle between thenormal to a surface element and the flow direction ahead of the bowshock .  cone half angle was found to be the significant parameter indetermining the pressure distribution near the nose-cone junction andover the conical afterbody .  on the 40 spherical nosed cone modelsthe flow overexpanded with respect to the taylor-maccoll pressure inthe region of the spherical-conical juncture, after which the pressurereturned rapidly to the taylor-maccoll value .  for models with smallercone angles the region of minimum pressure occurred farther back onthe conical portion of the model, and the taylor-maccoll pressure wasapproached more gradually .  the shape of the pressure distributionsas described in nondimensional coordinates was independent of theradius of the spherical nose and of the reynolds number over the rangeof reynolds number per inch between .97 x 10 and 2.38 x 10 .  integrated results for the pressure foredrag of the models at zeroyaw compared very closely with the predictions of the modified newtonianapproximation, except for models with large cone angles and small noseradii, where the drag approaches the value given by the taylor-maccolltheory for sharp cones .
  the author gives, by the method of finite differences, anapproximate solution of the problem of a finite lengthof a cantilever plate which bears a concentrated load atthe longitudinal free edge .  all the boundary conditionsare taken into account, and the plate action is determinedapproximately at all points of the plate .  theauthor points out that a secondary maximum transversestress occurs at the clamped edge nearest the loadingpoint, and that the longitudinal stress is greatest directlyunder the loading point .
a dynamic-analogy method for the solution of elastic plate problems isdescribed in this paper .  the electrical circuits developed here can beset-up and studied on an electric-analog computer .  problems involvingdeflections under constant load, transient vibrations, or normalmodes can be solved in this way .  the method of applying boundaryconditions to plates with irregular edges is given, together witha detailed description of the representation of the boundary conditionsfor a rectangular variable-thickness plate .  solutions that have beenobtained on the cal tech electric-analog computer are presented forthe static deflections and normal modes of a rectangular cantileverplate .
  a supersonic compressor design having supersonic velocity at theentrance of the stator is analyzed on the assumption of two-dimensionalflow .  the rotor and stator losses assumed in the analysis are based onthe results of preliminary supersonic cascade tests .  the results ofthe analysis show that compression ratios per stage of 6 to 10 can beobtained with adiabatic efficiency between 70 and 80 percent .  consideration is also given in the analysis to the starting,stability, and range of efficient performance of this type ofcompressor .  the desirability of employing variable-geometry statorsand adjustable inlet guide vanes is indicated .  although eithersupersonic or subsonic axial component of velocity at the statorentrance can be used, the cascade test results suggest that higherpressure recovery can be obtained if the axial component is supersonic .
  paper is a translation of chap. 7 of the book /technical gasdynamics/(see amr 9, rev 1869) .  the topics treated are bestshown by the list of paragraph headings .  they are ..  7-1 .  geometricaland gasdynamical parameters of the lattices,. fundamentalsof flow through lattices,. 7-2 .  theoretical methods of investigationor plane potential flow of incompressible fluid through alattice,. 7-3 .  electro-hydrodynamic analogy,. 7-4 .  forces actingon an airfoil in a lattice,. theorem of joukowsky for lattices,. 7-5 .fundamental characteristics of lattices,. 7-6 .  friction losses inplane lattice at subsonic velocities,. 7-7 .  edge losses in planelattice at subsonic velocities,. 7-8 .  several results of experimentalinvestigations of plane lattices at small subsonic velocities,.7-9 .  flow of gas through lattice at large subsonic velocities,.critical mach number for lattice,. 7-10 .  profile losses inlattices at large subsonic velocities,. 7-11 .  flow of a gas throughreaction lattices at supersonic pressure drops,. 7-12 .  impulselattices in supersonic flow,. 7-13 .  losses in lattices at near sonicand supersonic velocities,. 7-14 .  computation of angle of deflectionof flow in overhang section of a reaction lattice at supersonicpressure drops,. 7-15 .  characteristic features of three-dimensionalflow in lattices .
  the methods of the operationalcalculus are used to obtain a linearapproximation to the shape of the mean cambersurface of a quasi-cylinder in asupersonic flow in terms of its shell thicknessand loading distributions .  theanalysis deals with a generalised quasi-cylinder ,.that is one which, although lyingclose to a mean cylinder, need not possessaxial symmetry .  the quasi-cylinderis also permitted to be within the smalldisturbance field of other separatecomponents, e.g. a centre-body .  becausethe linearised theory is inadmissablefor internal duct flows close to and beyondthe first reflected characteristic cone,the present solution is likewise invalid closeto and beyond the position wherethis characteristic meets the mean cylinder .the work given here enables thecamber shapes of /ring-wings/, which havebeen used theoretically to reduce oreven nullify the wave-drag of a central slender-body,to be found .  an exampleillustrates the general method .
  an account is given of the high supersonic speed tunnel now nearingcompletion .  the design philosophy is reviewed, the principal featuresare described and some of the more interesting development problemsare noted .
  mach number and flow angle distributions in the working section ofthe mach 4 nozzle of the 4 ft x 3 ft high-supersonic-speed wind tunnelare presented for a range of total pressure and humidity .
  five free-flight models were flown to measure the zero-lift drag andbody base pressure on a standard wind tunnel interference model over amach number range of 0.84 to 1.48 .  roughness bands on the wings and body of the model are shown toproduce a small but definite increase in the zero-lift drag at all machnumbers .  the measured drag is in fair agreement with corresponding measurementsmade in various transonic tunnels with differences that could plausiblybe explained as the effects of tunnel interference .  the effect of a simulated wind tunnel support sting is shown toincrease the base pressure .  the discrepancy between models with andwithout a sting is greatest at subsonic speeds and progressivelydecreases with increasing mach number until at m = 1.4 the sting has noeffect on base pressure .
  a method of analysis based on slender-wing theory is developedto investigate the characteristics in roll of slender cruciform wingsand wing-body combinations .  the method makes use of theconformal mapping processes of classical hydrodynamics whichtransform the region outside a circle and the region outsidean arbitrary arrangement of line segments intersecting at theorigin .  the method of analysis may be utilized to solve otherslender cruciform wing-body problems involving arbitrarilyassigned boundary conditions .  in the present report, the application of the method hasshown ..differential incidence of both pairs of opposite surfaces of thecruciform wing-body combinations are practically independentof the body-diameter-maximum-span ratio up to a value of thisratio of 0.3 .arrangement is only 62 percent greater than that for a correspondingplanar wing-body combination .dence of both pairs of the opposing surfaces of the cruciformwing-body arrangement, is only 52 percent greater than thatfor a corresponding planar wing-body combination .unit surface deflection) of the cruciform wing-body arrangementhaving four equally deflected panels is therefore 94 percent ofthe corresponding planar wing-body combination .
  a theoretical investigation has been made of a general method forpredicting the flow field behind the wings of plane and cruciform wingand body combinations at transonic or supersonic speeds and slender configurationsat subsonic speeds .  the wing trailing-vortex wake isrepresented initially by line vortices distributed to approximate thespanwise distribution of circulation along the trailing edge of theexposed wing panels .  the afterbody is represented by correspondingimage vortices within the body .  two-dimensional line-vortex theory isthen used to compute the induced velocities at each vortex and theresulting displacement of each vortex is determined by means of a numericalstepwise integration procedure .  the method was applied to thecalculation of the position of the vortex wake and the estimation ofdownwash at chosen tail locations behind triangular-wing andcylindrical-body combinations at supersonic speeds .  the effects ofsuch geometric parameters as aspect ratio, angle of attack andincidence, ratio of body radius to wing semi-span, and angle of bank onthe vortex wake behind wings of wing-body combinations were studied .the relative importance of wing vortices, the corresponding imagevortices within the body, and body crossflow indetermining the the totaldownwash was assessed at a possible tail location .  it was found that the line-vortex method of this report permittedthe calculation of vortex paths behind wings of wing-body combinationswith reasonable facility and accuracy .  a calculated sample wake shapeagreed qualitatively with one observed experimentally, and sampleresults of the line-vortex method compared well with an available exactcrossflow-plane solution .  an empirical formula was derived to estimatethe number  of vortices required per wing panel for a satisfactorycomputation of downwash at tail locations .  it was found that the shapeof the vortex wake and the ultimate number of rolled-up vortices behinda wing depend on the circulation distribution along the wing trailingedge .  for the low-aspect-ratio plane wing and body combinationsconsidered, it appeared that downwash at horizontal tail locations islargely determined except near the tail-body juncture by the wingvortices alone for small ratios of body radius to wing semispan, and bythe body upwash alone for large values of that ratio .
  a wind-tunnel investigation wasconducted at a mach number of 1.96and at reynolds numbers (based on themean aerodynamic chord of theexposed wing) of 0.36 and 1.03 millionto determine the normal forces,pitching moments, and rolling momentscontributed by each wing panel ofa cruciform-wing and body combinationover a wide range of combinedangles of pitch and roll .  the wingswere triangular of aspect ratio 2,and the body was an ogive-cylindercombination .  the effects of forebodylength and roughness and of thepresence of the adjacent panels on thesepanel contributions were determined .  the results of the investigationshow that large changes in the panelforces and moments can occur as theresult of combined angles .  a generaltheoretical method based on slender-bodyand strip theories was found toyield results in good agreement with thewind-tunnel measurements .  thesecomparisons indicate that the changes inthe panel characteristics due tocombined angles are caused primarily bya cross coupling between the sidewashvelocities due to angle of attackand sideslip and by the presenceof forebody vortices due to crossflowseparation .  it was found that anincrease in forebody length increasesthe effect of the forebody vorticesbecause of the dependence of the strengthof these vortices on the forebodylength .
  an integral method for the rapid calculation of heat-transferdistributions on yawed cylinders of arbitrary cross-sectional shapeand on bodies of revolution in high-speed flows is developed forlaminar boundary layers .  the method involves the quadrature of afunction of the pressure distribution (assumed given) and satisfiesthe integral energy equation with the assumption of local similarity,wherein the actual boundary-layer profiles at every station arereplaced by corresponding profiles from a family of similar solutions .  the method is compared with other local similarity methods andwith experimental heat-transfer data on a circular cylinder and on abody of revolution designed for large axial pressure gradients .  goodagreement between theory and data is obtained and it is shown that thepresent integral method, in both its complete and simplified form, givesgenerally better agreement with the data than certain other local similaritymethods .  numerical examples are presented showing that the effect of sweepand gas properties on heat-transfer distribution is small .
the main purpose of this investigation is to examine the dependence ofheat transfer in planetary atmospheres on the total enthalpy up toflight velocities of 50,000 ft/sec where a large proportion of the atoms are ionized . the /total thermodynamic and transport property/ conceptdiscussed by hirshfelder /j.chem.phys.,26/2/,feb.,1957/ is used .
this analysis includes the specific contributions of atoms, molecules,tions are .. /i/ partially ionized air can be approximated as a fourcomponentgas including n2, n, n and e,. /ii/ the gas is in local thermochemicalequilibrium,. /iii/ there is no charge separation,. /iv/thermal diffusion is neglected,. /v/ no electrical or magnetic fields,. low re effects are neglected .
  brief description of experiments performed by using shock tubetechniques for measurement of the stagnation point heating of a bluntbody over a stagnation enthalpy range of 650 to 900,corresponding to velocities between 32,000 ft. per sec. and 39,000ft per sec., respectively .  data thus provided are used for comparisonwith theory .
  a change in flow pattern that was observed as the free-stream machnumber was increased in the vicinity of 0.8 was described in nacatechnical note 1211 by lindsey, daley, and humphreys .  the flow on theupper surface behind the leading edge of an airfoil at an angle ofattack changed abruptly from detached flow with an extensive region ofseparation to attached supersonic flow terminated by a shock wave .  inthe present paper, the consequences of shock-wave--boundary-layer interactionare proposed as a factor that may be important in determining theconditions under which the change in flow pattern occurs .  when themach number is high enough, the attached-flow pattern exists becausethen the shock wave is far enough behind the leading edge to keep theinfluence of the high pressure behind the shock wave from extendingthrough the boundary layer to the immediate vicinity of the leading edgeand affecting the flow there .  some experimental evidence in support ofthe importance of shock-wave--boundary-layer interaction is presented .
  schlieren photographs have been compiled of the two-dimensional flowat transonic speeds past 37 airfoils having variously shaped profiles,some of which are related and vary in thickness and camber .  the datafor these airfoils were analyzed to provide basic information on theflow changes involved and to determine factors affecting transonic-flowattachment, which is a transition from separated to unseparated flow atthe leading edges of two-dimensional airfoils at fixed angles of attackas the subsonic mach number is increased .
  the problem of stall flutter is approached in two ways .  first,using the m.i.t.-naca airfoil oscillator, the aerodynamic reactions onwings oscillating harmonically in pitch and translation in the stallrange have been measured, evaluated, and correlated where possible withavailable published data, with the purpose of providing empirical informationwhere no aerodynamic theory exists .  the major effects ofreynolds number, airfoil shape, and reduced frequency on the aerodynamicreactions have been reaffirmed .  no instances of negative damping wereobserved in pure translatory motion and the ranges of negative dampingoccurring in pure pitch had the same general trends noted by otherexperimenters .  data on the time-average values in the stall range ofboth lift and moment are presented for the first time .  second, the results of numerous experimental observations of stallflutter have been reviewed and the various known attempts at its predictionhave been examined, compared, and extended .  the sharp drop incritical speed and change to a predominantly torsional oscillationusually associated with the transition from classical to stall flutteris apparently primarily but not entirely caused by the marked changesin moment due to pitch .  fairly good stall-flutter predictions havebeen reported only when adequate empirical data for this aerodynamicreaction happened to be available for the desired airfoil shape,reynolds number range, and reduced-frequency range .  a semiempiricalmethod of predicting the variations of moment in pitch with airfoilshape, reduced frequency, initial angle of attack, and amplitude ofoscillation has been presented .
  an experimental investigation has been made of some effects ofvariations in several parameters, including fluid density, on theflutter characteristics of light uniform cantilever wings .  the assortmentof wings tested covered a variety of positions of the elastic axisand center of gravity and values of the aspect ratio of 8, 6, and 4 .the relative-density parameter (where k is representative of theratio of fluid density to wing mass) was varied over a range of valuesfrom 1.2 to nearly 14 .  special emphasis has been placed on the lowervalues .  the experimental investigation has been supplemented by an analyticalinvestigation based on the two-dimensional aerodynamic theory forincompressible flow .  in a few instances corrections for the effects offinite span have been made .  in general, the theoretical resultsfollowed the trends indicated by experiment except at very low values ofthe relative-density parameter .  for these low valuesthe analytical considerations employed indicated a freedom from flutternot found experimentally .  at higher values of the flutter-speedcoefficient is shown to decrease with decreasing values of andto be nearly proportional to the inverse of the square root of the airdensity .
pressures were simultaneously measured in the variable-density tunnelat 54 orifices distributed over the midspan section of a 5 by 30 inchrectangular model of the n.a.c.a. 4412 airfoil at 17 angles of attackranging from -dash 20degree to 30degree at a reynolds number of approximately3,000,000 . accurate data were thus obtained for studying thedeviations of the results of potential-flow theory from measured resultstechnique are presented .it is shown that theoretical calculations made either at the effectiveangle of attack or at a given actual lift do not accurately describe the observed pressure distribution over an airfoil section . there istherefore developed a modified theoretical calculation that agrees reasonablywell with the measured results of the tests of the n.a.c.a. 4412 section and that consists of making the calculations and evaluating the circulation by means of the experimentally obtained lift at the effectiveangle of attack,. i.e., the angle that the chord of the model makes with the direction of the flow in the region of the section underconsideration . in the course of the computations the shape parameteris modified, thus leading to a modified or an effective profile shapethat differs slightly from the specified shape .
  an approximate theory of airfoils in unsteady motion in a viscousfluid is proposed, in which viscous effects are accounted for byrelaxing the kutta condition and replacing it by a relation derived fromexperiments in steady flow .  applications here, are limited to moderateviscous effects below the stall .  the possibility of one-degree-offreedomflutter is discussed under this assumption .  the discussion ispartly extrapolated to the domain of stall flutter .  some possibilitiesof further development of this theory for the stalled case areindicated .
  an account is given of explicit solutions in terms of mathieu functionfunctions of the problem of two-dimensional subsonic compressibleflow past oscillating airfoils .  the results are applied to thecalculation of three-dimensional corrections for the two-dimensionaltheory and the effect of the incorporation of the three-dimensionaleffects on the mathieu function solution of the two-dimensionalproblem is shown .  the developments are formal and must be supplementedby an appreciable amount of numerical calculations before thetheory can be applied to specific problems .
  the particle treatment is applied to a study of thestructure of the wake behind a charged bodymoving supersonically through a low-density plasma .for the case of a body whose dimensions are considerablysmaller than a debye length, a solution is obtainedwhich is very similar in structure to thesolution obtained by using the linearized fluid dynamics equation .for the case of a disk whose radialdimensions are much larger than a debye length, twoconical regions are found in the wake .  at thesurface of each of these cones, over thicknesses ofthe order of a debye length, the ion and electrondensities are increased over their ambient values .formulae for the electrohydrodynamic drag on awire, and on a large disk are obtained .
  magnetic effects are considered negligible,and the velocity of the body is in a range between theelectron and positive ion thermal speeds .the self-consistent field approach is used in which theelectron distribution is assumed to be maxwellian,while the positive ion distribution function is givenby the /collision-free/ boltzmann equation .it is assumed that the ion reflection at the body surfaceis specular, and the body is sufficiently thin sothat the ion distribution function is a small perturbationof a maxwellian distribution .  the solution forthe simple case of a dielectric body with a given surfacecharge, as well as some general properties tobe expected for a conducting body are given .
  an induction drag, experienced by acharged satellite during its traversal of theionosphere, has been theoretically postulated byseveral authors .  previous 'exact' treatmentsof the problem are inapplicable to large systems, andthe semiempirical approach of jastrowand pearse may yield somewhat questionable results .the present description initially considersthe satellite as a completely permeable sphericalshell of charge, thus avoiding the difficultboundary conditions introduced by the 'exact'linearized treatment .  the effects of permeabilityare then shown to be approximately removableby means of an iterative process .  afinal result, apparently valid to within an order ofmagnitude, is obtained for the drag forcearising solely from electrical effects .  its magnitudeis considerably less than that obtained byjastrow and pearse .
  the problem of the ion density distribution around acharged satellite has been treated by a numerical methodwhich does not require linearization of the equations or restrictionto infinitesimal objects .  however, magnetic fieldeffects were not considered, and a number of other simplifyingassumptions were required .  some sample calculationsfor spherical satellites are presented, illustrating the generalcharacter of the satellite wake .  calculations of the socalled/charge drag/ were also made, yielding results qualitativelysimilar to those previously obtained by jastrow and pearse .
this note presents some physical interpretations of magnetohydrodynamicduct flows with various boundary conditions viewed in the light of theeffects of conducting walls on the pattern of electric current, takingexamples from published results on rectangular ducts .  the currentpatterns are illustrated in fig. 1 for rectangular ducts havingvarious combinations of conducting and nonconducting walls, a uniformmagnetic field being applied in the horizontal direction .
the work of a. m. liapunov and his theory of stability is discussed .the second method of liapunov is shown to have applications for linearequations with real constant coefficients, for a proof of the routhhurwitzcriterion, and linear equations with periodic coefficients .practical examples include non-linear stability problems of control, and the functions have uses in other areas of control systems .
  the velocity components of the fluid far from the airfoilare given by where c is the chord ofthe airfoil, and k are constants, u and v are velocitycomponents in the directions of the coordinates x and y .the solution is sought in the form of the stream functionand satisfies laplace's equation .  a general expression forfor vanishing disturbance velocities at points far fromthe origin is written, and the flows due to a source, a vortexand a solid circular cylinder in shear flow are consideredas examples .  typical streamline patterns are shown forthese cases .  from the eulerian equations of motion theauthor obtains the expression for in terms of theparameter and derivatives of .  the general formof is introduced and the appropriate solution for thepressure p is obtained .  by integration around a contourenclosing the body, expressions are obtained, analogous tothe blasius formulae, for the force and couple on anycylinder in this type of flow .  these formulae are applied tothe case of a symmetrical joukowsky airfoil .  the method ofconformal transformation is employed in the determinationof .  the boundary condition of tangential flow at theairfoil surface must be satisfied by the total flow in the airfoilplane, but this condition leads to a boundary condition forin the transformed plane .  the kutta-joukowsky conditionof finite velocity at the trailing edge also leads to acondition on in this plane .  from these conditions and thegeneral expression for the circulation and the strengthsof the doublets and quadruplets required for the force andmoment are determined .  hence, the formulae for lift andmoment coefficient are obtained .  these involve, in additionto the usual (potential-flow) terms, terms proportional to .  the ten functions that appear in the expressions for thelift and moment coefficients are tabulated for values of thethickness ratio between 0 and 1 .  the aerodynamic-centerposition and the coefficient of the moment about the aerodynamiccenter are also calculated and are presentedgraphically as functions of .
the cornell aeronautical laboratory is conducting a program oftheoretical and experimental research on low-speed aerodynamics asapplied to stol and vtol aircraft .  the objective of this program is tore-examine certain aspects of classical aerodynamic information, in thelight of low-speed flight requirements, with the aim of seeking aerodynamicprocesses which might be exploited to enhance law-speed performance.one aspect of propeller-driven aircraft which has recently receivedincreasing attention is the existence of strong gradients of longitudinalvelocity, or shear, in the propeller slipstream .  this slipstreamshear interacts with a wing surface and can alter the wingcharacteristics .  in theoretical treatments of a wing interacting witha propeller slipstream, the first important simplification is thereplacement of the slipstream with an ideal uniformjet, free of all velocitygradients .  the application of these theories requires that one equatethe actual slipstream to an effective uniform jet .  one method employedis to assume the uniform jet has a momentum flux equal to theaverage in the propeller slipstream .  these and similar proceduresare well founded on momentum considerations., however, the implicitassumption is that the flow nonuniformity, the shear, does not influencethe wing characteristics .
  three methods of approximating the deflections andmoments occurring in a rectangular cantilever plate subjectedto uniform normal pressure over its entire surfaceare presented in this paper .  the first is the application ofthe well-known finite-difference procedure .  the secondand third are collocation methods, one based upon polynomialsolutions of the lagrange equation, the other employing/mixed/ hyperbolic-trigonometric terms satisfyingthis equation .  in the last two methods the boundaryconditions are satisfied exactly along the clamped edge andat a finite number of points along the free edges of the plate .the results obtained for the particular case of a cantileverplate with uniform normal load indicate that the use of arelatively small number of points in the collocationmethod yields values of deflections and moments that arein substantial agreement with those given by the finitedifferenceprocedure .  it cannot be concluded from theseresults that the collocation method using the assumedfunctions will give satisfactory results with fewer pointsthan the finite-difference method for cantilever plates withloading different from the one investigated .
  re-examination of the crocco-lees method has shown that theprevious quantitative disagreement between theory and experimentin the region of flow up to separation was caused primarilyby the improper c(k) relation assumed .  a new c(k) correlation,based on low-speed theoretical and experimental data and onsupersonic experimental results has been developed and found tobe satisfactory for accurate calculation of two-dimensional,laminar, supersonic flows up to separation .a physical model which incorporates the concept of the /dividing/streamline and the results of experiment .  according to thisphysical model, viscous momentum transport is the essentialmechanism in the zone between separation and the beginning ofreattachment, while the reattachment process is, on the contrary,an essentially inviscid process .  this physical model has beentranslated into crocco-lees languages using a semiempiricalapproach, and approximate c(k) and f(k) relations have beendetermined for the separated and reattaching regions .  theresults of this analysis have been applied to the problem of shockwave,laminar-boundary-layer interaction, and satisfactory  a study of separated and reattaching regions of flow has led toquantitative agreement with experiment has been achieved .
  complete inviscid flow fields about three model axisymmetricconfigurations have been determined numerically .  configurationsdecreasing bluntness) and flight conditions have been selected soas to indicate separately effects of nose shape, drag coefficient,flight mach number, and thermodynamic behavior of the gas (eitherideal calorically perfect gas or air in equilibrium dissociation) .results are presented for thirteen cases .  particular attention isdevoted to interpretation and, when possible, correlation of pressuredistributions on, and shock shapes about, the cylindrical afterbodies.  it is found that ..  (a) the correlation of pressuredistributions on bodies having nonspherical noses involves interpretivemodifications of the law suggested by blast wave analogy .  alsoshocks about these bodies are not described by parabolae,. (b) forall configurations there is substantial influence of gas behavioron shock shape,. this, however, can be correlated in terms of thegas conditions along a generally defined streamline,. (c) the shocklayer can generally be divided into two regions (the first bound bythe body and the aforementioned streamline, the second delimitedby this streamline and the shock) wherein flow properties caneither be approximated by simple laws or correlated ..  (d) for eachconfiguration knowledge of the complete flow field in one flightcondition (even pertaining to ideal gas flow) can be used toestimate features of flows under general flight conditions includingthose where equilibrium dissociation is encountered .
  singularities are considered in the solution ofthe laminar boundary-layer equationsat a position of separation .  a singularity ofthe type here considered occurredin a careful numerical computation by hartreefor a linearly decreasing velocitydistribution outside the boundary layer ,. it mayoccur generally .  whenever it doesoccur, the boundary-layer equations cease to bevalid at and near separation on theupstream side, and also downstream of separation .the work suggests that singularitiesmay arise in the solution of non-linearparabolic equations due to theirnon-linearity .  the formulae found may helpcomputers of laminar boundary layers,who desire more than a rough solution, to havean end-point at which to aim .
  a new and general method for solvingproblems of plane and steady laminarboundary layer flows in incompressiblefluids with arbitrary outer pressuredistribution is developed .  this methodis based on the introduction of thedimensionless quantitiesas new independent spatial variables .ordinates, u(x) the given outer velocitydistribution, v the kinematic viscosity .)the solution of the boundary layer problemis then given as a power series in ewith coefficient functions depending on n .this series is a formally exact solutionof the boundary layer problem .  the new series solution has the following qualities ..      have the significance only of cartesian      coordinates, the influence of wall      curvature being neglected in boundary      layer theory, the new coordinates      are adjusted to the data of the special      problem in any case of application .      the new variables represent a logical      development of former efforts in      the field of boundary-layer flow calculation .      with other series solutions known for      some special cases is that the leading      term of the new series satisfies      exactly the outer boundary condition      at all cross-sections along the wall .      therefore, the succeeding terms give      corrections only in the inner part of      the boundary layer .  accordingly,      taking also no. 1 into account, the zero      order term by itself gives a good      approximation for the boundary layer flow .
  the theory of the laminar boundary layeroffers a means of determining the skin frictionunder the assumption of a given velocity distributionoutside the boundary layer .  owing to themathematical difficulties, however, exact solutionsare possible only when the velocity distributionis expressed as a simple function of the distancealong the surface .  more complicated velocity distributionsnecessitate recourse to the method ofexpansion in series or that of step-by-step calculations,but the labor involved is too great for themethods to be of practical use .  approximatemethod due to pohlhausen (1921), which had longbeen recommended for general use, gives a reasonablyaccurate solution in a region of acceleratedflow, but recently its adequacy in a region ofretarded flow has been questioned .  separation offlow may actually occur where the solution ofpohlhausen fails to give it .  more recently howarthsolution, which gives fairly reasonable results ina region of retarded flow .  howarth's solution essentially consists in solvingthe boundary layer equations for the particularcase in which the velocity u outside the boundarylayer decreases linearly with the distance x measuredalong the surface, and utilizing the solutionby replacing the actual distribution of u by acircumscribing polygon of infinitesimal sides .therefore, it is assumed that the velocity distributionat any section depends on the velocitygradient du/dx at that section only, being affectedby the conditions upstream only in so far as thisaffects the momentum thickness 0 .  in other words,the velocity distribution across the boundary layeris determined by a parameter .
  the boundary-layer equations for a compressiblefluid are transformed into those for an incompressiblefluid, assuming that the boundaryis thermally insulating, that the viscosity isproportional to the absolute temperature, andthat the prandtl number is unity .  variousresults in the theory of incompressible boundarylayers are then taken over into the compressibletheory .  in particular, the existence ofmethod for retarded flows is applied to determinethe point of separation for a uniformlyretarded main stream velocity .  a comparison withan exact solution is used to show that thismethod gives a closer approximation than does pohlhausen's .
  some new solutions for steady incompressible laminar boundarylayer flow, obtained by gortler, have been used to test the accuracy oftwo methods which are commonly used to predict separation .  amodification of stratford's criterion for separation is given in thispaper and is probably the most accurate and the simplest of all methodsat present in use .  modified numerical functions are also given forthwaites's method of predicting the main characteristics of the boundarylayer over the whole surface, which improve the accuracy of the method .
  this paper summarizes the optical and physical propertiesof the photoelastic model material paraplex p-43 overthe temperature range from room temperature to -40 f .descriptions are presented of techniques and equipmentdeveloped to obtain the modulus of elasticity, the materialfringe value, and the thermal-expansion coefficient as afunction of temperature .  experimental investigationswere conducted into the plane-stress problems of a diskcontracting upon an elastic inclusion and the transientthermal-stress field produced by a temperature differentialsuddenly applied to the upper edge of a long beam .  thedata are correlated with theory using the material propertiesobtained in the calibration phase .  also included arephotographic results of an exploratory investigation of thethermal-shock phenomenon produced by the sudden applicationof a temperature differential upon plastic beamsof various length-depth ratios .
  the optical and physical properties ofparaplex p43, castolite, and epoxy resinhysol 6000-op, which are potentially ofinterest in photothermoelastic investigations,were investigated over a temperature rangefrom +100 to -60 f .  results on thethermal-expansion coefficient, the materialfringe value, and the modulus of elasticityas functions of temperature are presented .also evaluated were thermal properties ofimportance in heat conduction .  photothermoelasticfigures of merit, which rate theoptical sensitivity of materials in photothermoelasticapplications, as well as a newmethod to determine this figure in a relative manner are presented .
  an experimental study has been made to investigate some aspectsof the nature of the flow around delta wings .  vapor-screen, pressuredistribution,and ink-flow studies were made at a mach number of 1.9 ona series of semispan delta-wing models with slender wedge airfoil sectionsand very sharp leading edges .  the models had semiapex anglesranging from 5 to 31.75 .  separated regions of vorticity existed along the chords of allthe wings in the series tested .  concentrated vortex cores were foundonly on wings of very small semiapex angles .  for wings with mediumand large semiapex angles, the separated vorticity was concentrated ina region extending over the outboard part of the span and lying closeto the wing upper surface .  the results show that theoretical aerodynamic calculations, suchas those in naca tn 3430, utilizing a single, separated vortex pairabove the wing upper surface to represent the separated vorticity canbe applied at supersonic speeds for very slender wings .
  several slender wings of delta planform with sharp edges have beeninvestigated theoretically at zero lift at subsonic and at supersonicspeeds .  most of the wings have diamond-shaped cross sections and areintended to lead to a type of flow with leading-edge separation in thelifting condition .  the pressure distributions and overall normalpressuredrags resulting from various theoretical methods are comparedwith one another and some discussion is included concerning thepossibility of achieving the results, calculated for an inviscid stream,in a real flow in the presence of a viscous layer around the body .
  the vapour screen method of flow visualisation in supersonic windtunnels is outlined, and the development of a suitable technique for usein the 3 ft tunnel described, together with the associated optical andphotographic equipment .  the results of tests to determine the humidity required to produce anoptimum density of fog in the working section over the mach number rangetemperature discussed .  numerous vapour screen photographs of the flowover and behind delta wings are included and some comparisons made withthe corresponding surface oil-flow patterns .  the process of condensation, the physical and optical properties ofthe resulting fog, and the formation of the vapour screen picture areall considered in some detail .  the effects of humidity on the mach number and static pressure in theworking section were investigated and the results are compared withtheoretical estimates at a nominal mach number of 2.0 .  it is shownthat the adverse effects of condensation on the flow at high machnumbers may be alleviated by the use of liquids with a lower latent heatof evaporation than water, and some results obtained at a mach number of  the possibility of extending the vapour screen technique to transonicand subsonic speeds is also considered, and some results obtained at amach number of 0.85 are included .
the present paper describes a method for the approximate solution of the nonlinear equations of transonic small disturbance theory . althoughthe solutions are nonlinear, the analysis is sufficiently simple thatresults are obtained in closed analytic form for a large and significant class of nonlifting airfoils . application to two-dimensional flowswith free-stream mach number near 1 leads, for instance, to general expressionsfor the determination of the pressure distribution on an airfoilof specified geometry and for the shape of an airfoil having aprescribed pressure distribution and gives, furthermore, the correctvariation of pressure with mach number at mach number 1 . for flows that are subsonic everywhere, the method yields a pressure-correction formulathat is more accurate than the prandtl-glauert rule and comparesfavorably with existing higher approximations . for flows that aresupersonic everywhere, the method yields the equivalent, in transonicapproximation, of simple wave theory . results obtained by applicationof these general expressions are shown to correspond closely to existing solutions and to experimental data for a wide variety of airfoils .
  a new method is proposed to calculate the velocity and pressuredistributions around a thin symmetrical aerofoil or a slender body ofrevolution flying at transonic speed .  it is essentially a refinementof the linearized transonic flow theory due to oswatitsch and maeder,such that a correction term is introduced to take account of thenonlinear character of the transonic flow .  as examples of application,a symmetrical circular-arc aerofoil and a circular-arc body ofrevolution in the sonic flow are dealt with, and the results are foundto be in good agreement with experiments, except for the rear portion inthe latter case .
  the simple linearized transonic flow theoryas originally proposed by oswatitsch andkeune(1) and by the present authors (2)is improved by considering and partiallycorrecting its error .  in this manner a theorywhich is easy to apply and which shouldbe valid for a great number of smooth bodiesis obtained .  this improved theory predictsshock waves in the lower transonic regions .it is applied to a number of significantbody and airfoil shapes and its predictions arecompared with experiments and resultsof other theoretical investigations .
  in this paper, the pressure distributionat the surface of a symmetricalnon-lifting aerofoil with free streammach number of unity has been investigatedby means of the small-disturbancelinear theory or the method of locallinearization .  and by comparing withthe calculated results based on anhodograph method, the accuracy of theseapproximate methods has been evaluated.  moreover, when these approximatemethods are used for the calculationof the pressure coefficient, some notesnecessary to obtain more correct resultshave been discussed .
placeholder
in this chapter we shall mainly consider problems of steady, two-dimensional(plane) supersonic flow .  using the fact that in this casethere is a steady wave system, we shall find solutions by an indirectapproach .  that is, we shall first study the conditions under whichsimple stationary waves may exist in the flow, and then find the flowboundaries to which they correspond or which may be fitted tothem .  in this procedure the limited upstream influence in a supersonicfield is very helpful, for it allows flows to be analyzed orconstructed step by step, which is a method that is not possible inthe subsonic case .
the freeman method (ref. 26) is similar tochester's method in that the newtonian-plus-centrifugal solution (eq.with the von mises transformation .  a method of successive approximationsis applied to both plane and axially symmetric blunt-nosed bodiesfor small and infinite free-stream mach number .formulas for the streamlines, shock shape, and pressure distribution aredetermined to this approximation .  a number of special shapes aretreated in ref. 26, and in certain cases the theory has a singular pointwhere the first approximation to the pressure vanishes., that is,for a sphere (see eq. 7-113) .  as in chester's method, the theory isnot applicable where the pressure becomes too small .
a theoretical investigation of the velocity profiles for laminarmixing of a high-velocity stream with a region of fluid at resthas been made assuming that the prandtl number is unity .  a methodwhich involves only quadratures is presented for calculating thevelocity profile in the mixing layer for an arbitrary value of thefree-stream mach number .detailed velocity profiles have been calculated for free-stream machnumbers of 0, 1, 2, 3, and 5 .  for each mach number, velocity profilesare presented for both a linear and a 0.76-power variation of viscositywith absolute temperature .  the calculations for a linear variation aremuch simpler than those for a 0.76-power variation .  it is shown thatby selecting the constant of proportionality in the linear approximationsuch that it gives the correct value for the viscosity in the hightemperaturepart of the mixing layer, the resulting velocity profilesare in excellent agreement with those calculated by a 0.76-powervariation .
  a method is given for obtaining the solution of the laminar boundarylayer equations for the steady flow of a stream of viscousincompressible fluid over a parallel stream of different density andviscosity .  an approximate solution is also obtained by means of themomentum equation .  it is shown that the solutions depend only on theratio of the velocities of the two streams and on the product of thecorresponding density and viscosity ratios .  numerical results aregiven, in the case where the lower fluid is at rest, for four values ofand also when for one non-zero value of the velocity ratio .
the blasius equation subject to three-point boundary conditions, describingthe interaction between two parallel streams, is solved by wayof a series in terms of ascending powers of the ratio equals /u1 -dashu2//u1, where the u1's are the outer streams' velocities .the first three terms of the series are analytically expressed in termsof the repeated integrals of the complementary error function /im erfc /and of the repeated integrals of the square of the successive integralsof the complementary error function /jmin erfc n/ . these functionsoften appear in problems leading to extended heat-conduction type ofequations . a recurrence formula for jmin erfc n is established andformulae relating the functions in erfc /-dashn/ and jmjn erfc toavailable tabulated values of the functions in erfc /n/ are derived .the first three approximations to the blasius function and to its firsttwo derivatives are also presented in tabulated form with four significantfigures . test on the convergence of the series has been made bycomparison with some exact solutions obtained by high speed computingmachine . the comparison, extended to the physically essential quantities,shows that ..second and first derivatives .yield extremely accurate results . the errors in the first two derivativesof the blasius functions are always contained within less than one per cent .
  the approximate solution of keulegan(1) for the steady flow of astream of viscous incompressible fluid over another at rest is extendedto the case where both fluids are moving co-current but at differentvelocities .  this solution utilizes a sextic polynomial for thevelocity distribution in the boundary layers .  the solutions dependonly on the ratio of the velocities of the two streams and on theproduct of the corresponding viscosity and density ratios .  numericalresults are given for seven values of at one value of .  lock(2) haspublished an exact solution with a numerical result for and the sexticpolynomial solution is evaluated f40umerical result for and the sexticindicates that in general the sextic polynomial is more accurate thanthe quartic polynomial but that the advantage is not great .
  authors tabulate solutions of f''' + ff'' = 0 for the velocitydistribution in a boundary layer .  for each solution f'(0) = 0,the third boundary condition is the specificationof f(0) .  f(n) and its first three derivatives are tabulated to 5din gaps of 0.1 in n for f(0) = -1.23849, -1.2(0.05) 0.5 (0.1) 1.5,introduction gives method of solution andphysical meaning of boundary conditions, etc .  lock's (amrcussed .
  the differential analyserhas been used to evaluate solutions of the equation y''' = -yy'' +with boundary conditions y = y' = 0 at x = 0, aswhich occurs in falkner and skan's approximate treatment of thelaminar boundary layer (see abstract 1081 (1932)) .  a numericaliterative method has been used to improve the accuracy of the solutions,and the results show that the accuracy of the machine solutions is aboutinsufficient to specify a unique solution for negative values of,.a discussion of this situation is given, and it is shown that for theapplication to be made of the solution the appropriate condition is thatfrom below, and as rapidly as possible, as .  the condition thatfrom below can be satisfied only for values of greater than a limitingvalue whose value is approximately -0.199, and which is related to thepoint at which the laminar boundary layer breaks away from theboundary .
a recent technical note by sutton (1), with the above title, discussesthe influence of the burning of a transpiration coolant on the quantityof coolant necessary to maintain a given wall temperature .  the presentnote discusses the same problem in a way which has been found usefulin calculating the burning rates of solid and liquid fuels (2) .consider the transpiration cooling of a porous surface in a gas stream .then a simple modification of the general mass .
  analytical predictions are given for the development ofthe velocity, temperature and concentration fields in alaminar air boundary layer on a flat plate in high-speeddissipative flow, the plate being considered porous andcooled by injection of hydrogen from its surface .  theadmixture of hydrogen, having a low density and highthermal capacity relative to air, is shown to greatly diminishthe skin friction and to markedly relieve the adversethermal effects of intense aerodynamic heating underconditions of hypersonic flow .
  a reexamination has been made of the use of simple concepts forpredicting the shape and location of detached shock waves .  the resultsshow that simple concepts and modifications of existing methods canyield good predictions for many nose shapes and for a wide range of machnumbers .
  development of an analytical relation between shock detachmentdistance and free-stream mach numbers .  results are presentedgraphically for shock detachment distance of cylinders and spheresin air .
  the effects of stream velocity gradients on airfoil maximumlift are defined with experimental data obtained in a simulatedtwo-dimensional slipstream .  the experimental results showthat when positioned near the slipstream plane of symmetry, theairfoil maximum lift varies markedly with location in the slipstream.  in moving the airfoil from above to below the slipstreamplane of symmetry through a total distance correspondingto the airfoil thickness, force data and boundary-layer observationsshow that boundary-layer separation is delayed to higherangles of attack, and the airfoil maximum lift is doubled .  it is concluded that the destalling effect observed in the nonuniformslipstream is not associated with slipstream boundaryinterference, but stems from the influence of the large local slipstreamshear on airfoil characteristics .  the effects of uniformand nonuniform shear on airfoil lift and pressure distribution arediscussed, within the framework of existing first-order, smallsheartheory, to show that these effects of shear tend to promotestall .  a pohlhausen calculation of the laminar boundary layerin a stream with shear is used to identify and to assess the effectsof stream shear on boundary-layer separation criteria .  it isdemonstrated that these effects are negligibly small, and that theuniform-flow criterion applies .  it is concluded on the basis ofthe experimental data that the observed destalling phenomenonstems from a shear effect of higher order than those treated in theinviscid theories .  it is hypothesized that it is a second-ordereffect, fixed by the product of the stream shear and the derivativeof the shear, which was large in the present experiments .
  the temperature is determined as a function of position andtime in the case of linear heat conduction in a composite slab ofture throughout, and the two external surface temperatures areconsidered to be prescribed functions .
  the similarity laws for aerothermoelastic testing are presentedin the range .  these are obtained bymaking nondimensional the appropriate governing equations ofthe individual external aerodynamic flow, heat conduction tothe interior, and stress-deflection problems which make up thecombined aerothermoelastic problem .  for the general aerothermoelastic model, where the model isplaced in a high-stagnation-temperature wind tunnel, similitudeis shown to be very difficult to achieve for a scale ratio otherthan unity .  the primary conflict occurs between the freestreammach number reynolds number aeroelasticparameter heat conduction parameter andthermal expansion parameter .  means of dealing with this basic conflict are presented .  theseinclude (1) looking at more specialized situations, such as thebehavior of wing structures and of thin solid plate lifting surfaces,and panel flutter, where the aerothermoelastic similarity parametersassume less restrictive forms, (2) the use of /incompleteaerothermoelastic/ testing in which the pressure and/or heatingrates are estimated in advance and applied artificially to themodel, and (3) the use of /restricted purpose/ models investigatingseparately one or another facet of the complete aerothermoelasticproblem .  some numerical examples of modeling for the general aerothermoelasticcase as well as for the specialized situations mentionedin (1) above are given .  finally, extension of the aerothermoelastic similarity laws tohigher speeds and temperatures is discussed .
  a separated flow field, in which the incoming boundary layeris undisturbed up to the separation point, is defined as a /basetype/flow .  examples are the flows over a blunt base and overa backward-facing step .  the crocco-lees theory is applied tothe supersonic, two-dimensional, laminar, base-type flows definedabove .  the separated flow is divided into a mixing regionand a recompression (or reattachment) region .  calculations ofbase pressure show its dependence on the mach number and ontwo reynolds-number-dependent variables, and .  it is shown that existing base-pressure data can be explainedby these results .
  presented note proposes a linearized reaction rate parameterwhich is applicable to any reacting gas mixture provided all thepertinent reactions and their rate constants are known at the thermodynamicconditions under consideration .  linearizing isachieved by expanding equation of rate of chemical reaction in ataylor series and neglecting higher-order terms .  author announcesthat tables of linearized reaction rate parameters for dissociatedand slightly ionized air are now in preparation at thespace sciences laboratory, general electric co., msvo .  comparison of preliminary results with exact calculations publishedby hall, i. g., et.al., /inviscid hypersonic air-flows withcoupled non-equilibrium processes/ (ias paper 62-67, 30th annualmeeting, new york, jan. 1962) indicates good agreement .
  paper studies compressible laminar boundary layer in adversepressure gradient .  after mentioning mathematical instabilities inhowarth's and like solutions, authors quote equation from one ofthe references, based on the assumptions that zeroheat transfer and y = 1.4 .  thence authors compute nondimensionaldistances to separation, comparing with solutions by other workers.  results are interesting, though reviewer feels rather unhappyabout approximations leading to eq. (4),. more detailed justificationsshould have been given .  thus we have the statementber, as ./  surely a fuller discussion of effectsof letting is warranted .  typography in eqs. (2) and (3) is rather confusing and there isa typographical error in heading to table 2 .
  the magnetic-field vector is perpendicular to the flow direction,.thus for normal shocks there is no change of flow direction throughthe shock front .  this class of shocks is included in investigationsby several authors (five are referred to here), but the presentationhere is thought to be especially convenient .  all downstreamquantities are given in terms of upstream flow conditions,including the upstream ratio of alfven speed to sound speed, andthe shock strength (density ratio) .
  author studies the velocity profiles measured by others in planeand turbulent couette flow, such as is induced in parallel channelsof which one of the walls moves in its own plane .  he findsthese profiles to be satisfactorily describable in terms of theseventh-power law, which was originally set up for plane and turbulentpressure flow in channels where both walls are stationary .further, he finds the shear law for pressure flow,to be applicable also to the couette flow, in a similar range ofreynolds number, r .  no attempt is made in this concise contributionto put these findings on a firmer basis through a theoreticalexplanation .
various approximations are being suggested for obtaining surfacepressures on arbitrary bodies at angle of attack .  this not presentsa method for obtaining an approximate pressure distribution overthe lower surface of an ogive forebody at angle of attack by utilizingthe calculated pressures for zero angle of attack .
  the laminar-boundary-layer equations have been integratedfor the case of a flat plate over a wide range of free-streamenthalpies and velocities and over a wide range of enthalpies ofthe gas at the wall .  the range of free-stream velocities extendedup to 25,000 ft sec at low free-stream enthalpies, correspondingto local conditions on a slender body traveling at high speeds .at low free-stream velocities, the range of free-stream enthalpiesextended up to 400,000 btu slug, corresponding to the localconditions on a blunt body traveling at speeds up to 25,000 ft sec .the gas was assumed to be in thermodynamic equilibrium at eachpoint in the boundary layer and diffusion effects were neglected .the solutions to the boundary-layer equations were carried outon a high-speed digital computing machine, both skin-friction andheat-transfer coefficients being obtained from the computations .  before presenting the results, the t' method of rubesin andjohnson for computing skin-friction coefficients for the perfectgascase is reviewed .  for the real-gas case, the average temperature,t', is replaced by the average enthalpy, h', and the h'method is then used to compute skin-friction coefficients .  thesevalues are in excellent agreement with the computing-machineresults .  it was found that the recovery factor for the real-gascase can be approximated by, the best results for thecases considered being obtained if a value of pr corresponding tothe enthalpy, h', is used .  using this recovery factor andreynolds analogy, heat-transfer rates can be computed which,with a few exceptions, are within 5 percent of values obtainedfrom computing-machine results .
  axisymmetric viscous flow past unyawed very slender bodiesof revolution is treated within the category of the perfect gas .attention is paid especially to the effect of transverse curvatureof the body .  from the transformed equations, the similarityconditions are deduced, and the parameter characterizing theeffect of transverse curvature is obtained .  several numericalsolutions of similarity equations for hypersonic flows are presented,and upon the basis of these results, the effect of thetransverse-curvature parameter is discussed .  a method ofapplying the local-similarity approximation to obtain the approximatesolution for nonsimilar cases is described, as are practicalapplications to incompressible flow past a long cylinder andto hypersonic flow past a very slender cone .  comparison withexperimental results shows fair agreement with calculations usingthe local-similarity approximation in the present range of experimentalflow conditions .
  the general solution of the strong blast wave is found in thenewtonian approximation--i.e., neglecting terms of orderthe expressions obtained for the pressure, temperature, density,and velocity profiles are simple .  the results are applied topower-law bodies in hypersonic flow using the equivalenceprinciple .  higher-order approximations for strong blast waves are investigatedfor the cases in which the shock layer is thin .  asimple pressure formula is found, which constitutes an improvementupon the newton-busemann formula, and some of its applicationsare shown .
  usaf-sponsored analysis of the unsteady perturbations of twodimensionaltransonic flow around an airfoil, where local supersonicregions terminated by shock waves are present in the vicinity of theairfoil .  viscous effects are neglected, and a linearized theory ofthe perturbations due to harmonic oscillations of an aileron is developed.  a series solution for the pressure distribution is obtained,and numerical results for the nonsteady hinge moment, from thefirst approximation to the solution, are presented .  as a result offlutter analysis a stability boundary for transonic aileron buzz isobtained .  comparison of the theoretical results with experimentalobservations shows satisfactory agreement .
  a simple and relatively accurate analytic approximation isdeveloped to determine the temperature and thermal-stress distributionin aircraft wing structures .  theoretical investigationsshow that the results of the existing thermal-stress theorieswhich neglect the temperature gradient through the skin thicknessmay exceed, in the range of higher biot numbers, the truevalues by more than 30 percent .  refined photothermoelastic experiments verify these resultsand add another significant conclusion .  they indicate thatthermal stresses in wing structures generated by a variable heattransfercoefficient coincide with the theoretical predictionswhich are based on a constant heat-transfer coefficient, as longas the latter represents the arithmetic average over the heatingcycle and the variation is in the order of 10 percent .  however,even much greater variations in the order of 100 percentproduce only relatively small differences .
  a general method is described for calculating, with the aid ofan electronic computer, the potential flow about arbitrary bodiesof revolution whose axes are perpendicular to the free-streamdirection .  when combined with the solution for the axisymmetricflow about these bodies, this method makes it possible tocalculate the pressure distribution on any body of revolution atangle of attack forward of any separated region of the flow, andalso to calculate the flow at points off the body surface .  afterthe basic equations of the method have been derived, its accuracyis exhibited by comparison with analytic solutions for ellipsoidsof revolution .  calculated pressure distributions are then comparedwith experimental data for a variety of bodies .  theagreement is quite satisfactory in all cases .  the calculatedvelocities for other selected bodies are presented to exhibit certainproperties of this type of flow .
  author considers the equation of the yawing motion of a missile,derived with a series of customary assumptions and with the distancetraveled as the independent variable .  his assumptions includethe linearity of the aerodynamic forces, the constancy of theaerodynamic coefficients with respect to mach number, the absenceof spin, and the absence of gravity .  if to these assumptionsone could add the common ballistic assumption of a constant airdensity, the coefficients of this equation would have been condampedsinusoids .  in ballistics any slow variation of these coefstant,and the solution would have been simply the exponentiallyficientsis usually treated by adding an approximate correctionterm to the damping rate (which is spoken of as the wkb perturbation).  however, with a body entering the planetary atmosphere thevariation of the air density is apparently of greater essence (thisis a point not stated explicitly in this brief communication), andthe equation is of the type .the author shows that with a series of further transformationsthe equation can be reduced to the formthe solutions of which are confluent hypergeometricfunctions .  these functions are defined as series involvinggamma functions, and with a series of further assumptionscan be reduced to laguerre polynomials and bessel functions .  it is certainly nice to have an exact solution to a problem whichhas heretofore been extensively treated by approximations and bythe numerical approach .  this reviewer is puzzled, however, as tothe practical significance of the proposed approach .  an idealizationis of value in that it facilitates our understanding,. and thenumerical approach, in that it allows refinements of the problem,freeing us from the necessity of idealizing .  but the proposed solutionis certainly more difficult to refine than the original problem,.and it is certainly not simple (the solution of the originalequation is not the value of z, but the various /reverse/ transformationsof z) .  an evaluation of a series in practice must competewith the numerical approach,. and the equation suggested is of thezero) .  viewing the problem /afresh/ (in the light of the /computerrevolution/ and without the constraints imposed by the priorart), it seems at least equally easy to /standardize/ the solutionsof the original equation .
  the steady, fully developed, laminar, free-convection flow of anelectrically conducting fluid between two fully submerged openended,constant-temperature vertical plates located in a constant,uniformly distributed, transverse magnetic field has been analyzedwith the joule heating term retained in the energy equation .  analyticresults are obtained .  such analytic results are useful in estimatingthe actual magnitude of the influence of joule heating aswell as a qualitative description of the manner in which it altersthe temperature and flow fields .  the present result confirms theusual practice that the influence of joule heating is negligiblysmall .
  presentation of stagnation-point shock-detachment distancesdetermined by the exact numerical method of gravalos, edelfelt,and emmons .  the results are compared with those from the previouslypublished methods of van dyke and gordon, li and geiger,and serbin, and with experimental data .
  discussion of a previous application, by squire, of the author'scompressibility transformation to the correlation of high-speedboundary-layer data for air and helium .  squire's suggestion thatthe compressibility transformation is invalid is shown to be incorrect.
  it is shown that the author's transonic-flow airfoil theorycan be used to estimate transonic drag-rise and onset-of-separation-effectsmach numbers without reference to experimentalresults .  a simple comparative method is applied to a series ofairfoils, and the results are analyzed to determine some of thedesign features of importance in transonic flow .  an improvementto this scheme is shown to give results in good agreementwith experiment for both the first appearance of shock wavesand the onset of separation effects .  application to finite sweptwings is briefly considered and illustrated .
  the problem of determining the stability of compressible viscousflows with nonzero surface velocities is formulated and isshown to be identical to that for conventional boundary layers,with only a redefinition of the mach and reynolds numbers required.  specific consideration is given to the wall boundarylayer behind a moving shock wave, and the minimum criticalreynolds numbers are obtained for various shock velocities .the entire stability map is determined for the limiting case of aweak wave, which is analogous to the rayleigh problem .  the minimum critical reynolds number is found to increasemonotonically with shock velocity--i.e., with increasing surfacecooling and stream mach number combined .  for the ratio ofwall to stream velocity of 2.92 with (shock mach numberof 2.18) the flow is found to be infinitely stable to two-dimensionaldisturbances .  experimental transition data do not follow the trends predictedby the theory .  in fact, the transition reynolds numbers areorders of magnitude below the computed minimum criticalreynolds numbers .  the lack of correlation between theory andexperiment is attributed to disturbances which are external tothe boundary layer .
  navy-sponsored experimental investigation of the location ofboundary-layer transition on sharp-nosed cones having 10 totalangles .  the ambient temperature in a portion of the aeroballisticsrange is varied so as to obtain different adiabatic recovery temperaturesat a constant nominal mach number of 3.1 .  the locationof transition is expressed as a transition reynolds number, andresults are presented graphically as a function of the ratio betweenthe wall temperature and the adiabatic recovery temperature .
in the continuous quest for improved means of transportation,attention is currently focused on the ground-effectmachine .  as there is no physical contact between the vehicleand the terrain over which it operates, its performance shouldbe similar over land and water .  however, over water there isan additional resistance to motion due to the gravity-wavesystem generated by the supporting or /cushion/ pressure actingon the water surface .  estimates of this component can be madeusing the analysis of t. h. havelock .  it is the purpose of thisnote to present an ibm 650 digital-computer solution of hisequations .  as shown below, these results differ from havelock'soriginal results .
  discussion of several forms of the energy equation and of theiruse for the study of the flow of nearly incompressible fluids .
van hise, in his detailed study of the nose-bluntness-inducedpressures on cylindrical afterbodies, shows that, startinga few nose diameters aft of the nose-afterbody junction, thesepressures are correlated with the parameteras predicted by the blast-wave analogy .  chernyi developed amodified form of the blast-wave analogy which takes into accountthe addition of energy to the flow by a thin afterbody .  heshowed that for thin afterbodies and hypersonic speeds, thepressure distribution, plotted as should correlate withthe parameter .  the purpose of this noteis to show that the above correlation techniques may be combinedinto a form such that pressures on cylindrical and conicalafterbodies are correlated by one parameter .
considers a material, acted upon by heat of conduction, which changesits state by sublimation at the heated surface . the derived method ismost suitable under conditions of severe heating such as space vehiclere-entry .
  usaf-supported discussion of the use of an intermediate ellipticorbit for changing the plane of a circular orbit .  values of theperigee and apogee velocities are calculated for the following cases ..the braking impulse supplied by grazing of the atmosphere,. and (3)re-orbit with 90 of the braking impulse supplied in this manner .
  experimental confirmation has been required that in a supersonicturbine the leading edges of the rotor governs the rotor incidence and,hence, the gas exit angle from the nozzles .  evidence has also beenrequired that, once the rotor incidence has been allowed for, there isno adverse effect of the rotors on the nozzle flow, even when the rotorshave a large turning angle .  the present test cascade represented the stationary configurationof a turbine of 2.5 nozzle mach number and 74 swirl angle, the rotorsbeing designed to operate at 1.9 relative mach number and to provide aturning angle of 140 .  in the tests, fully supersonic flow could beestablished through the system, but the losses were fairly high and anincrease in loss of about 25 per cent would have caused choking in therotor .
  a formula for the supersonic velocity field in terms of a givensurface distribution of sources is applied to points lying in thesurface .  an equation giving the camber shape of a quasi circularcylindricalsurface in terms of a prescribed thickness distributionis derived and the half ring wing with prescribed thickness distributionis discussed as an example .
  pressure measurements were made at mach numbers between 1.3 and 2.8over a range of incidences on three simple models representing thickconical uncambered wings with sharp leading edges .  these tests formpart of an investigation into the effects of thickness and camber onslender wings .  the aspect ratio of the models was unity in each case, and thespanwise cross sections were bounded by ..  themeasured pressure distributions are presented, along with overalllift and drag (excluding skin friction and base drag) obtained byintegration .
  results are given of a wind tunnel programme made to study thepressure distributions and flow patterns over a series of simple,conical shapes at a mach number of 4.0 .  the results have been comparedwith various approximate theories and the limitations of these theoriesare discussed .  it is found that at this mach number leading edge separations stillhave an influence on the suction surface pressure, and that this surfacestill makes a significant contribution to the overall forces .
  the paper deals with self-sustainedoscillations of a dynamic systemof single degree of freedom, with linearrestoring force and non-lineardamping force .  the latter is supposedto be a function of velocityrepresentable by a simple /polygonal/graph, such that the damping isnegative at small velocities but becomespositive at velocities above acertain value .  on these assumptions,a rigorous solution is presented,including the equations of motion,amplitude, maximum velocity and period .a very simple solution is obtainedfor the limiting case of vanishinglysmall damping .  an approximate solutionby series in powers of dampingratio is worked out whichgives a satisfactory accuracy forquite large values of .
  the dynamic longitudinal-stability characteristics of a standardwind tunnel interference model have been investigated in free flightover a mach number range of 0.92 to 1.35 .  measurements of lift-curve slope and manoeuvre margin wereobtained, and are compared with results from transonic-tunnel testsunder low blockage conditions .  the analysis was extended to obtain damping derivatives to allowcomparison to be made with possible future dynamic tests in wind tunnelson the standard shape .
  it is shown that shock waves whosestructure is determined solely by the effectsof chemical reactions (reaction-resistedshock fronts) are possible and completelyanalogous to relaxation - resisted waves .a single dissociation reaction is consideredand numerical results indicate that suchwaves could be observed experimentally .bulk viscosities equivalent to reactioneffects are possibly 10 or more times shearviscosity values .  (examples are based onlighthill's ideal dissociating gas) .
  a heat conduction problem is set upwhich, in essence, simulates the conditionsarising when a plane shock wave reflectsfrom a co-planar solid boundary .  the gasis assumed to be polyatomic, with one  the quantity of primary interest isthe temperature of the solid at the interface,since this can be observed experimentallywithout much difficulty .  solutions areobtained for this quantity which cover arange of practically plausible relaxation timesand 'wall effect' parameters .  it is essentialto include proper temperature jumpboundary conditions for both active andrelaxing (or inert) energy modes .  thus it isnecessary to know accommodation coefficientsfor these modes of energy storage .the temperature jump effects are found todominate the (interface) solid's temperaturetime history, with relaxation effects playinga very secondary role .  the theoretical results are comparedwith some experimental observations andencouraging agreement is found .  as aresult of this agreement it proves possible toestimate the accommodation coefficientfor the active modes (in this case for thecombination platinum air), the pressurebeing about 15 atmospheres .  the pressuresensitivity of accommodation effects is commented on .
  the effects on base pressure of jet mach number, free streamreynolds number and jet to base diameter ratio have been investigatedexperimentally .  it was found that, for jet stagnation pressures greater than thatrequired for the nozzle to reach its design mach number, an increaseof jet mach number reduced the base pressure .  similarly the basepressure increased with increase of the ratio of jet diameter to basediameter and, at high jet stagnation pressures, base pressures higherthan free stream static pressure were found .  the base pressure wasindependent of free stream reynolds numbers greater than 2 x 10 perfoot but increased with reduction of reynolds number below 2 x 10 perfoot .  unsteady wave patterns were found when the jet mach number didnot differ markedly from the free stream mach number and the jet hadjust reached its design conditions .
  wing-tail interference is shown to cause large /magnus/ effectson a finned missile whose wings are deflected into an aileronsetting .  a simple experimental method with water as the workingmedium is used to obtain low-speed magnus data on a rollingmissile .  the missile is a slender cruciform configuration withall-movable wings and fixed tail fins .  magnus data are presentedfor angles of attack up to 15 and for the one (high) rollrate which accompanies a 30 aileron deflection angle of thewings .  tests conducted at zero roll rate but with the wing deflectionmaintained, revealed large forces in the magnus direction,thereby providing the basis for understanding magnus effects dueto wing-tail interference .  a semiempirical theory is proposed to explain the experimentaldata .  a simplified model of the wake behind the wings is introducedto predict tail-interference factors .  good agreement withthe data is obtained .  this magnus effect is opposite in direction to the classicalmagnus lift on a spinning cylinder ,. it is much larger than eitherthat effect or the one on a missile with only one set of fins .  wingtailinterference is the predominant source of the effect ,. roll rateonly modifies the basic interference mechanism .
the profile of a symmetric airfoil of unit length with a roundleading edge can be expressed, in general, aswhere p(x) has a finite slope at x = 0 .  it is well known thatthe conventional sub- and supersonic linear theories of compressibleflow break down in the neighborhood of such a roundleading edge due to the failure of the small-disturbance assumption.  the linearized transonic flow theory has the same shortcoming,but if the determination of the sonic point on the airfoilplays an important role in any more advanced theory--e.g.,spreiter's local-linearization method or hosokawa's method ofrefinement--this theoretical barrier will become more seriousbecause the sonic point is usually located in a flow region nearthe leading edge that may be greatly affected by the roundness .
  an experimental investigation of the laminar, transitional, andturbulent heat transfer rates over a conical cylindrical flaredbody is presented .  regions of favorable, zero, and adverse pressuregradient on the body are investigated .  the experimentalresults are compared with the theories available in the literature .  the model chosen for this investigation is a cone-cylinder-flareconfiguration consisting of a 20 semivertex conical nose portionsmoothly blended by a shoulder radius into a long cylindrical bodyand terminated by a smooth large radius flare .  the model was tested at a free stream mach number of 8, overa range of reynolds number from 0.3 x 10 to 1.6 x 10 per inchbased on free stream conditions .  various stagnation-to-walltemperature ratios were obtained by cooling the model prior tothe test with liquid nitrogen .  the stagnation-to-wall temperatureratios were 10 and 3.3 .  the theoretical predictions gave good results for the heattransfer rates in the laminar region, and fair prediction in thetransitional and turbulent regimes extending over the shoulderand forward portion of the cylindrical body .  over the aft portionof the cylinder and over the flare the predictions are only qualitativelycorrect, and underestimate the heating rate by a factor ashigh as 3 .  conversely, the /flat plate reference enthalpy/over the aft portion of the body, but to increasingly overestimatethe heating rates over the forward portion of the cylinder .  a modified equation for the heat transfer coefficient in thetransitional and fully turbulent region based on the f.p.r.e.method is then presented .  this method gives good agreementwith the experimental results presented over the entire range oftransitional and turbulent flow .  from the results the following is concluded ..  cooling the walldelayed transition .  by expanding the flow rapidly between thecone and the cylinder, the transition reynolds number is reachedvery rapidly .  by making a smooth transition between the cylinderand the flare, no separation occurred at the cylindrical flarejunction .  the transitional and turbulent heat transfer in thepresence of an adverse pressure gradient may be predicted withsufficient accuracy by the f.p.r.e. method .
the detached shock in front of a blunt body in hypersonicflow tends to acquire the shape of the frontal curvature of thebody .  thus the curvature of the shock can be assumed to be thesame as that of the body, at least up to the sonic point (point a,fig. 1) .  if the equation of curvature of the body is known, theequation of curvature of the shock is also known .  in this paper,with this assumption, a method is described to determine the approximateposition of the sonic line (ao'b, fig. 1) .  the shockdetachmentdistance is assumed known .  the method is, of course, general .  this can be applied toany detached shock provided its equation of curvature is knowncorresponding to that of the body .  for simplicity the detachedshock is assumed to be circular in this paper and the procedure isoutlined below with the assumption that the sonic line ao'b isparabolic .
  comparison of heat-transfer rates, obtained by using transportproperties recently reported by peng and pindroh, with rates basedon hansen's thermodynamic and transport properties .  it is shownthat the heat-transfer rates based on the peng and pindroh dataare 20 to 30 lower for the velocity range of 25,000 to 40,000ft sec .
  hypersonic viscous flow over an insulated flat plate with surfacemass transfer is studied .  the tangent-wedge approximationis used in the inviscid-flow region, and the integral method is appliedto the treatment of the laminar boundary layer .  the lawof surface mass transfer for the present analysis is derived .  acontinuous transition of the pressure variation is achieved fromthe strong to the weak pressure-interaction region .  first-orderformulas for the induced surface pressure and the skin-frictioncoefficient are obtained for both the strong and weak pressureinteractionregions .  results are compared with those calculatedfrom other analyses .
  the transonic flow round a two-dimensional airfoil at incidenceis often determined by the type of flow in the leading-edgeregion .  if the flow separates at the leading edge at low speeds itis liable to attach as the speed increases, often quite suddenly .a review of this change with laminar or with turbulent boundarylayers re-emphasizes the importance of fixing transition whenmaking model tests at transonic speeds in order to obtain flowsclosest to full-scale conditions .  it is shown that similar airfoils with attached leading-edgeflow show transonic similarity upstream of the terminal shock .
in a recent paper a method was presented for obtaininghigher accuracy in the numerical solution of the blasiusequation with three-point boundary conditions .  the wellknownblasius equation was previously developed in an investigationof the steady two-dimensional incompressible boundarylayerflow over a flat plate, but it has been extensively used ininvestigating other fluid flow problems .  the three-pointboundary-value problem is encountered in the theory of laminarmixing and in approximate analyses of separated and wakeflows as noted in ref. 1 .
in reference 1, the analysis given by probstein and elliott for thezero-pressure-gradient, constant-wall-temperature, compressible,laminar boundary layer with transverse curvature was extended to firstorderslip flow .  this extension was based on a double asymptoticexpansion in a transverse-curvature parameter and a slip parameter .the expansion in ref. 1, however, was carried out with the parameterheld constant .  for and a constant wall temperature, is constant ande varies with x due to the dependence of the local body radius on x .thus, for arbitrary body shapes, e will not be constant .  in thepresent note, the analysis of ref. 1 is re-examined taking into accountthe variation of e .
  the purpose of this research program was to investigate theeffects of a diffusion field on a laminar boundary layer in a supersonicflow .  specifically, helium, nitrogen, and argon wereuniformly injected into the laminar boundary layer of a highspeedflow in a tube with the objective of determining the effectsof such injection on the pressure, temperature, and recovery factordistribution along and downstream of the injection region .  a continuously operating axially-symmetric wind tunnel hasbeen designed, constructed, and operated .  this tunnel consistsof an air supply system, a flowmeter, an upstream stagnationtank, a supersonic nozzle (throat diameter 0.262 and exit diameter1.400), a test section of variable length (zero to 81 diameters,test section diameter of 1.400), a downstream stagnation tank,an exhaust system, a foreign gas supply system, and all necessaryinstrumentation .  the overall performance of this apparatus interms of the design specifications was excellent .  the tunnel was instrumented with 109 thermocouples .  alltemperatures except ambient temperatures were automaticallymeasured and recorded by means of a self-balancing recordingpotentiometer .  there was 29 pressure taps distributed along thetunnel, 23 along the test section itself .  pressures were measuredby means of an interconnected micromanometer and a vacuumreferenced manometer system with overlapping ranges .  for all of the results reported herein, the overall test sectionwas 41 diameters in length,. composed of a porous test sectionapproximately 7.2 diameters in length (leading edge approximately1.8 diameters from the nozzle exit plane) and four nylontest sections of 8 diameters each .
  oseen's equations for unsteady flow are employed to obtaina linearized solution based on a discontinuous-wake model .the analysis is employed to estimate the viscous correction tounsteady lift and moment at large reynolds number .  if theasymptotic solution is not too slowly convergent, the correctionis of the order of the ratio of the logarithm of reynolds numberto the reynolds number .  the theory is preliminary in natureas it is limited by the accuracy of oseen's equations and isrestricted to small angle of attack .  however, it also shows thatthe generalized trailing-edge condition for potential flow isreasonable and might predict the essential correction in a realfluid .
  a particle approach is used to study the flow pattern around abody moving in the upper layers of the ionosphere .  the effectsof distant encounters between charged particles (dynamic friction)and of the earth's magnetic field are taken into account .it is shown that, when the magnetic lines of force are parallelto the direction of motion of the body, there may be a markedconcentration of charged particles in the vicinity of the bodyand a considerable fraction of the reflected or deflected chargedparticles may reimpinge on the body surface .  a numerical exampleis given for the size and shape of the charged-particledensitycontours in the flow field surrounding a circular disc,and these are compared with the corresponding neutral-particlecontours .
the stability theory of a. m. lyapunov, a popular topic inthe u.s.s.r., is receiving increasing attention elsewhere .this note describes lyapunov's /second method/ very brieflyand applies it to an aeronautical stability problem .
  author discusses the problem of deflection of a cantileveredbar, initially in the shape of a circular arc, subjected to an arbitrarilyinclined end load .
  the energy separation for laminar low-density-nonunity prandtlnumber flow in circular cross-section tubes is the topic of thisnote .  a conclusion is reached as to the effect of prandtl numberon the velocity profiles for these flows .  however, in order toreach valid quantitative conclusions the reviewer feels that moredetailed analysis is in order, and that the analysis as presentedhere is of qualitative value only .
following is an analytical method for designing a shroud which willgenerate the hypersonic pressure distribution on a hemisphere .  themethod was found to be successful throughout the region of subsonicflow .  this shroud was designed as part of a low-turbulence wind tunnelused for investigating the effects of cooling on boundary-layertransition on a hemisphere .the design of the shroud contour was carried out in two steps .  first,an approximate solution for the incompressible, irrotational flowfield was found in the region, and, second, the resulting contourwas corrected for compressibility near the sonic region, assumingone-dimensional flow .
  transition from laminar to turbulent flow in the hypersonicwakes of spheres was detected in laboratory measurements of theradiation from the flow field .  a hypervelocity gun facility wasused to fire models, 0.22-in. in diameter, into a range at velocitiesfrom 10,000 to 17,000 ft sec .  experiments were performed bychanging ..  (a) the material of the projectile ,. (b) the ambientgas in the range ,. and (c) the pressure in the range .  threeoptical techniques were used to observe the wake radiation ..which show a turbulent viscous wake as the pressure in therange is decreased from one atmosphere to about 20 cm hg .which show the luminous flow field at pressures between 30 andence of short luminous streaks, which disappear suddenly as thepressure is decreased below 3 cm hg for air, and below 0.8 cmhg for argon .both air and argon, which show the main features of the flowfield .  above the transition pressure, the intensity of radiationfrom the wake is always associated with fluctuations that appearto be the same phenomenon as the drum-camera streaks .  the appearance of the streaks in the drum camera and photomultiplierdata is interpreted as transition from laminar to turbulentflow in the viscous wake, because experimental evidenceshows that their appearance is not controlled by chemical,radiative, or ablative processes, but depends on aerodynamiceffects .  this conclusion is supported by other experiments basedon optical and schlieren techniques .  the transition in the wakeat positions very close to the body is given by a local reynoldsnumber of 10 for air, and 3 x 10 for argon .  the results indicatea possible local-mach-number effect .
several methods have been developed for computing thehypersonic, low reynolds number flow in the stagnationregion of a blunt body .  in general, these methods involve complicatednumerical solutions .  simultaneous iterations on severalparameters are usually required in view of the boundary-valuenature of the problem .  the purpose of this note is to present an approximate closedformsolution to axisymmetric stagnation point hypersonic flowin the viscous layer regime .
  the compressibility transformation first introduced by dorodnitzynhas been applied in this paper to the equations of the turbulentboundary layer on a flat plate, considering heat transferand arbitrary prandtl numbers .  assuming the shear distributionto be invariant under the transformation, the stream functionand the momentum equation take the proper form for incompressibleflow, allowing the use of incompressible velocityprofiles in the transformed coordinates .  application of crocco'smethod to the transformed energy equation permits integrationof the energy equation resulting in a formulism remarkablysimilar to that proposed by eckert .  finally, the reference conditionwas chosen to correspond to the edge of the sublayer fromconsiderations of the assumptions made regarding the shearstressdistribution .  with this choice, the reference enthalpy is ingood agreement with eckert's formula over the ordinary range oftest conditions .  in view of these results, the analysis may beconsidered to provide a theoretical basis for the referenceenthalpymethod .
  this note presents a simplification of a method for calculatingthe ratio of local to stagnation-line heat-transfer coefficientson a yawed, infinite, circular cylinder in laminar compressibleflow .  a brief description of the method of ref. 1 ispresented, followed by a discussion of the assumptions and mathematicalprocedure which lead to a considerable simplification .
  the problem of predicting the characteristicsof a hypersonic laminar boundary layer thatinteracts with the external flow field is approachedusing the tangent wedge formulation forthe inviscid flow field and the method of similarsolutions for the viscous flow .  it is shownthat the concept of local similarity which allowsthe pressure gradient parameter to vary inthe streamwise direction leads to an explicitrelation between the viscous and inviscid flowsfor all values of the hypersonic interactionparameter .  the conditions of /strong/ andlimits of the general relations .  the present theoryis compared with three independent experimentalinvestigations .  in each case, the agreementis found to be excellent over the range ofinvestigated .  it is shown, using asymptoticsolutions to the exact boundary layer equations,that the present theory is applicable to a widevariety of viscous interaction problems .a large number of solutions to the laminar boundarylayer similarity equations for a perfectgas with cross flow and surface mass transfer aregiven .  these numerical results, when combinedwith the solutions of previous authors, aresufficient to describe the range of conditions with high precision .
  this paper is concerned with the similitude lawsgoverning inviscid, nonequilibrium gas flowsaround blunt or sharp-nosed slender bodies atzero angle of attack, based on the hypersonicsmall disturbance flow theory .  some relatedfeatures of the interaction between the effects ofnose bluntness and nonequilibrium dissociationand vibration and the influence of a dissociatedfreestream are also discussed .  thehypersonic equivalence principle and the relatedsimilitude for affinely related bodies are setforth for nonequilibrium flows in either diatomicgases or a gas mixture such as air .  for a familyof diatomic gases, as opposed to a given gassuch as air, a generalized ambient gas statescaling condition is obtained, whereby the ambientdensity and temperature need not besimulated .  a detailed discussion is given ofblunted cylinders and slabs or sharp-nosedcones and wedges, including example nonequilibriumflow field correlations of numericalsolutions available in the literature .  low densitynonequilibrium flows with a negligible shocklayer atom recombination rate are also examined,. as expected, a less restrictive smalldisturbance similitude law is obtained in thiscase .
  biot's variational principle is applied to a number of differentone-dimensional heat conduction problems .  these problemsshow the applicability of the variational principle to problemsinvolving prescribed heat flux boundary conditions and to thosewith temperature-dependent material properties .  a method is introduced for including boundary conditionswhen these are expressed as prescribed heat fluxes .  the ideabehind this is overall energy balance within the body, which is aconstraint condition to be satisfied by the time histories of thegeneralized coordinates .  the variational principle is then applied to the well-knownproblem of constant surface heat flux in order to present thetechnique and provide a basis for the remaining sections .  theequivalence of the result obtained in applying the variationalprinciple for a prescribed surface temperature history to that obtainedfor a prescribed heat flux is also pointed out .  radiationcooling due to fourth power radiation from semi-infinite solidsand finite slabs together with radiation according to newton'slaw of cooling is then treated .  finally, the introduction of temperature-dependentmaterial properties is discussed and the determinationof the temperature distribution in a semi-infinitesolid with variable properties is investigated .
  a method of calculation is developed to compute the overallperformance of a multi-stage axial compressor, from a knowledge of theindividual stage characteristics, by a /stacking/ technique .compressor models are designed and their overall performancecalculated .  these results are compared to show, qualitatively, theeffect of alterations in design and stage performance on overallperformance and to find how compressors should be designedfor optimum performance .
aerodynamic stiffness and damping derivatives have been measuredin a /hypersonic gun/ wind tunnel for sharp and blunt-nosed two dimensionalsingle wedge shapes oscillating in the pitching mode inhypersonic flow .  the results, which have been compared withtheoretical prediction, modified to account for leading edge bluntness,show that this may increase the damping by up to 50 percent for certainaxis positions .  details of the experimental technique designed tomeasure the derivatives in the short running times available aredescribed .
  the flow around slender wing-finconfigurations having curved leadingedges, whose shape is defined by polynomials,is considered .  a generalexpression for the pressure distributionon such a configuration inasymmetric flow is derived and thederivatives due to the particular caseof sideslipping motion are also given .no numerical results are given forwing-fin load distribution, but thesideslip derivatives have beenevaluated in a number of cases forgothic and ogee wings .
  this note describes transient walltemperature measurements made on ain an airstream of mach number 6.8 .  the skin of the model wassufficiently thin to allow it to reach zeroheat transfer conditions within arunning time of one minute .  in order to reduce effectsof longitudinal heat conduction during arun the electroformed-nickel skinof the model was made with gradedthickness, and as a result fairlyuniform temperature distributions alongthe surface were obtained at alltimes in both the laminar and turbulentregions .  values of heat transfer, calculated from the wall temperature-timehistories using the thin-walltemperature are compared to theoreticalestimates using the intermediateenthalpy method 10, 11 .
  the theory of laminar boundarylayers along flat surfaces has beenused in conjunction with eckert'sapproximations to the displacementthickness, skin friction and temperatureprofiles on the undersurface of acaret wing configuration .  to a firstapproximation it has been assumedthat parallel flow exits behind the shockoutside the boundary layer, and thedisplacement of the shock by the boundarylayer near the leading edge is neglected .  conduction of heat within thebody and along the surface is neglectedbut radiation is included, so thatare found .  examples are given forvarious altitudes and configurations andthe effect of the skin friction onthe lift drag ratio calculated, assumingthe undersurfaces to be plane .
  the effect of air drag on satelliteorbits of small eccentricity ewas studied in part i (tech. notegw 533), on the assumption thatatmospheric density varies exponentiallywith distance r from the earth'scentre, so that the 'density scale height'h, defined as, isconstant .  in practice h varies with heightin an approximately linearmanner, and in the present note the theoryis developed for an atmospherein which h varies linearly with r .  equationsare derived which show howperigee distance and orbital period varywith eccentricity, and howeccentricity varies with time .  expressionsare also obtained for the lifetimeand air density at perigee in termsof the rate of change of orbitalperiod .  the results are also presentedgraphically .  the results are formulated in twoways .  the first is to specify theextra terms to be added to the constant-hequations of part i .  the secondthe best constant value of h foruse with the equations of part i .  forexample, it is found that theconstant-h equations connecting perigeedistance (or orbital period) andeccentricity can be used unchanged withoutloss in accuracy, if h is takenas the value of the variable h at a heightabove the mean perigee heightduring the time interval being considered,where, anddecreases from to 0 as e decreasesfrom 0.02 to 0 .  similarly theconstant-h equations for air density atperigee can still be used if h isevaluated at a height above perigee,where, anddecreases to zero as e decreases fromconstant-h equations can still be usedif h is evaluated at the scale heightbelow the initial height .  variation ofh with altitude has a small effecton the lifetime - about 3 - and on thee-versus-time curve .
  the vortex tube represents a simple device in which aparticular type of vortex motion may be studied in thelaboratory in an attempt to obtain a better understandingof such flows .  such an investigation has been pursued inthe heat transfer laboratory of the university of minnesota.  the present paper summarizes the major results ofthis vortex-tube investigation .
the effects of low-density phenomena on thefully developed heat-transfer characteristicsfor laminar flow in tubes has been studiedanalytically .  consideration is given to theslip-flow regime wherein the major rarefactioneffects are manifested as velocity and temperaturejumps at the tube wall .  theanalysis is carried out for both uniform walltemperature and uniform wall heat flux .in both cases, the slip-flow nusselt numbersare lower than those for continuum flowand decrease with increasing mean free path .extension of the results is made to includethe effects of shear work at the wall, temperaturejump modifications for a moving fluid,and thermal creep .
  the various difference patterns necessary for finite differencesolution of rectangular plate problems, with various boundary conditionsand under various transverse loads, are developed .  the solution ofone particular problem on deuce is also described .
  when a hypersonic object enters earth's atmosphere, a shockwave is formed in front of it, and the air passing through thisshock wave is heated to high temperatures .  the shock heatedmolecules equilibrate their translational and rotational degreesof freedom within a distance of a few mean free paths .to achieve equilibrium, it is necessary to excite vibration,dissociate molecules, produce new molecules and produce ionsand electrons .  the problem is complex, since all these phenomenaoccur simultaneously and because the reaction rates dependon the temperature, density and composition which are changingduring the relaxation toward equilibrium .  the experimental techniques used to investigate these reactionsare briefly discussed along with the resulting rate expressionsobtained by the various investigators .  a compilationof the rate expressions for these reactions representing theauthor's evaluation of all the available data is presented .several pertinent problems which are not yet completely understoodand which still require theoretical and experimental investigationare outlined .  computed concentration, temperatureand density time histories are shown for three different shockspeeds in air .  the time rate of change of concentration foreach chemical reaction is also shown and regimes of importancefor the various processes are discussed .
  the steady-state equations of motion for athin layer of an incompressible glassy material on thesurface of an ablating and radiating bluntbody are reduced to a first-order ordinary differentialequation which is integrated numerically .this solution is coupled with the solution of the airboundary layer for both laminar and turbulentheat transfer with or without mass vaporization ofthe ablating material .  the distribution of theeffective energy of ablation around the body is thusobtained for a cone cylinder with a hemisphericalcap that re-enters the atmosphere at hypersonicflight speeds, and has quartz as the ablatingmaterial .  it is found that the ablation process fromturbulent heating is more efficient than fromthe laminar case because of increased vaporization .this solution of the equations of motion at thestagnation point has been verified by are wind tunnelexperiments .  the present state of developmentof the are wind tunnel does not permit its use forexperimental investigations of ablation aroundblunt bodies under turbulent heating .
  utilizing the research results of previouslyreported investigations of the laminar, turbulent andradiative heat transfer in dissociated air, somegeneralized formulas for calculating heat transferare given .  graphs for determining the laminarheat transfer, momentum thickness reynoldsnumber, and turbulent heat transfer distributionsaround an axisymmetric body are also given .these heat transfer correlations are valid for velocitiesbetween 6000 and 26,000 fps and for altitudesup to 250,000 ft .  this range of velocities andaltitudes covers the important re-entry regime ofpractical re-entry trajectories having interest today .in the last section of this report these generalizedresults are specialized for icbm nose cone re-entryapplications .  these formulas and graphsmay be found useful for making rapid engineeringestimates and preliminary design evaluationsof the heating problems associated with re-entryinto earth's atmosphere .
in a recent paper (1), detra and hidalgo have shownthat, when the boundary layer is turbulent, the heatflux per unit area at the sonic point of a nose cone may exceedthe corresponding laminar heat flux per unit area at thestagnation point .  the ratio of turbulent sonic-point tolaminar stagnation-point heat flux per unit area has beenestimated (2) to vary from about 1.0 to 10 for a hemisphericalnose as the reynolds number (based on nose diameter)increases from 10 to 10 .  since for an axisymmetric bodythe surface area in the vicinity of the sonic point greatlyexceeds the area in the vicinity of the stagnation point, theratio of turbulent to laminar heat fluxes to the entire bodywill be much greater than the above quoted ratios of heatfluxes per unit area .
  this paper presents numerical results ofexact calculations of the inviscid equilibrium flow abouta long hemisphere-cylinder in motionat hypersonic velocity .  a comparison is made with blastwave as well as free layer theories of hypersonicflow .  as a result of the comparison, it is concludedthat the second-order blast wave theory canbe used for the purpose of finding the shock shape andthe body pressure distribution .  however,this procedure is definitely empirical and cannot be justifiedon rational or theoretical grounds .we show that the presently calculated radial distributionof energy is radically different than thatgiven by blast wave theory .  if body shapes other thanthose considered here are of interest, theonly reliable approach at the present time is to carry outnumerical calculations .  it was foundthat for certain flight velocities the pressure on the bodydoes not decay to free stream pressuremonotonically but overexpands .
  this note refers to paper of same title by feldman in ars j. 30,validity of blast wave theory cannot be justified on rational ortheoretical grounds because of different values of energy in crossflow field as calculated by this theory and by method of characteristics.  present note questions this conclusion, shows reasonablygood agreement when energy is calculated for points where shocklocation, streamline pattern, and velocity, temperature, and pressureprofiles are adequately defined, and still better agreementwhen energy is calculated from flow quantities provided by-characteristicsmethod .  results are checked using data from independentsource .  conclusion is reached that blast wave theory isstill valid .
  the laminar-turbulent transition behind 0.500-in.-diameterspheres at 8500 ft sec and behindmeasured as a function of pressure .  schlierenmotion-picture techniques were used to analyze theturbulent motion and the results are described .autocorrelation functions of the density fluctuationsof the turbulence have been measured .  fromthese values has been calculated and the resultsare given for several positions in the turbulenttrail at 30 mm hg downstream air pressure .  in additionthe authors' previous measurements of thegross radial growth of the turbulent wake have beenextended to pressures of 10 mm hg for the caseof 0.500-in.-diameter spheres and to the trail behind
  relations are presented for the calculation of heat transfer atthe forward stagnation point of both two-dimensional and axially symmetricblunt bodies .  the relations for the heat transfer, which wereobtained from exact solutions to the equations of the laminar boundarylayer, are presented in terms of the local velocity gradient at thestagnation point .  these exact solutions include effects of variationof fluid properties, prandtl number, and transpiration cooling .  examplesillustrating the calculation procedure are also included .
  an analysis is presented which predictsthe skin-friction and heattransfercharacteristics of a compressible,laminar boundary layer on asolid flat plate preceded by a poroussection that is transpiration cooled .the analysis is restricted to a prandtlnumber of unity and linearvariation of viscosity with temperature .  the local skin friction has beenfound to have a low value in theregion of transpiration cooling and thento increase until it approachesthe value for a completely nonporous surfaceasymptotically .  the initialincrease in local skin friction is rapidas half of the ultimate increaseoccurs in a distance beyond the porousregion that is about 20 percent ofthe length of the porous region for all ratesof injection .  when thetotal coolant flow rate is kept constantand the porous length is varied,it is found that the average skin frictionon a partially porous plate isslightly lower than that on a fully porous plate .  the local heat transfer behaves ina manner similar to that of thelocal skin friction .  it is found, inan example, that the temperatureat the end of a partially porous platecould be maintained at about thesame temperature as a fully porous plateby doubling the total rate ofcoolant flow .
  the problem studied may be regarded as a problem of geometry.  its simplest form (loosely stated) is then as follows ..  amountain rises up from the x-y plane .  determine the exactshape of the mountain knowing only the cross-sectional area ofevery possible cut which can be made through the mountain witha vertical plane .  in a more complicated version of the problem,the given information might be restricted to the cross-sectionalarea of every cut which can be made by a vertical plane inclinedless than 45 to the y-axis .  this latter case has direct applications to certain minimumdrag problems in supersonic flow .  the shape of the mountaincorresponds to the (unknown) shape of the optimum lift distributionon a planar wing .  the cross-sectional area of a cut isthe integrated value of the lift along a straight line crossing thewing plan form .  for a restricted range of line inclinations, theseoptimum integrated lift values can sometimes be determineddirectly .  here it is assumed that they are given .  the problem in its simplest form was originally solved byradon, who found solutions for a large class of such problems .the derivation presented here may perhaps be more readilyunderstood .
  the theory of compressible flow in a laminarboundary layer has been developed for thecase when the viscosity is assumed to beproportional to the absolute temperature and theprandtl number is unity .  (these assumptionsmay be compared with the empirical relationssuggested by cope .)it is shown that a transformation of the ordinatenormal to the layer can lead to a simplifiedform of equation of motion very similar to theordinary incompressible equation but modifiedby a multiplicative factor g in the pressureterm .  this factor is greater than unity at theboundary and tends to one at the outside ofthe layer .  several particular solutions are consideredincluding accelerated flow with a linearlyincreasing velocity and retarded flow along aflat plate with a linearly decreasing velocity .  the general implications of the theory arediscussed and qualitative conclusions are drawnwhen the mainstream velocity starts froma stagnation point, rises to a maximum andsubsequently falls .  it is concluded that forsuch a velocity distribution increasing compressibilitywill reduce the skin friction, increasethe boundary layer thickness and causeearlier separation as compared with the incompressibleflow with the same mainstream velocitydistribution and the kinematic viscosity correspondingto conditions at the stagnation point .
  after an extensive survey of mean-velocity profile measurementsin various two-dimensional incompressible turbulent boundarylayerflows, it is proposed to represent the profile by a linearcombination of two universal functions .  one is the well-knownlaw of the wall .  the other, called the law of the wake, ischaracterized by the profile at a point of separation or reattachment .these functions are considered to be established empirically, bya study of the mean-velocity profile, without reference to anyhypothetical mechanism of turbulence .  using the resultingcomplete analytic representation for the mean-velocity field,the shearing-stress field for several flows is computed from theboundary-layer equations and compared with experimental data .  the development of a turbulent boundary layer is ultimatelyinterpreted in terms of an equivalent wake profile, which supposedlyrepresents the large-eddy structure and is a consequence of theconstraint provided by inertia .  this equivalent wake profile ismodified by the presence of a wall, at which a further constraint isprovided by viscosity .  the wall constraint, although it penetratesthe entire boundary layer, is manifested chiefly in the sublayer flowand in the logarithmic profile near the wall .  finally, it is suggested that yawed or three-dimensional flowsmay be usefully represented by the same two universal functions,considered as vector rather than scalar quantities .  if the wallcomponent is defined to be in the direction of the surface shearingstress, then the wake component, at least in the few cases studied,is found to be very nearly parallel to the gradient of the pressure .
  local heat transfer, equilibrium temperatures,and wall static pressures have been measured on acircular cylinder at yaw angles of 0, 10, 20, 40,and 60 .  the reynolds number range of the testswas from 1x10 to 4x10 based on cylinderdiameter .  increasing the yaw angle from 0 to 40 increasedthe stagnation-line heat-transfer coefficients by 100to 180 percent .  a further increase in yaw angle toheat-transfer coefficients .  at zero yaw angle the boundary layer over theentire front half of the cylinder was laminar but atyaw angles of 40 and 60 it was evidently completelyturbulent, including the stagnation line, as determinedby comparison of local heat-transfer coefficientswith theoretical predictions .  the level of heatingrates and the nature of the chordwise distributionof heat transfer indicated that a flow mechanismdifferent from the conventional transitional boundarylayer may have existed at the intermediate yaw anglesof 10 and 20 .  at all yaw angles the peak heattransfercoefficient occurred at the stagnation lineand the chordwise distribution of heat-transfercoefficient decreased monotonically from this peak .  the average heat-transfer coefficients over thefront half of the cylinder are in agreement withprevious data for a comparable reynolds numberrange .  the theoretical heat-transfer distributions forboth laminar and turbulent boundary layers arecalculated directly from simple quadrature formulasderived in the present report .
  heat-transfer and skin-frictionparameters obtained from exactnumerical solutions to the laminarcompressible-boundary-layer equationsfor the infinite cylinder in yaw arepresented .  the chordwise flow inthe transformed plane is of thefalkner-skan type .  solutions are givenfor chordwise stagnation flow withboth a porous and a nonporous wall .the effect of a linear viscositytemperaturerelation is compared withthe effect of the sutherland viscositytemperaturerelation at the stagnationline of the cylinder for aprandtl number of 0.7 .  the effects ofpressure gradient, mach number, yawangle, and wall temperature are investigatedfor a linear viscosity-temperaturerelation and a prandtl numberof 1.0 with a nonporous wall .  the results indicate that compressibilityeffects become importantat large mach numbers and yaw angles,with larger percentage effects onthe skin friction than on the heattransfer .  the use of the two differentviscosity relations gives about thesame results except when large changesin temperature occur across the boundarylayer, as for a highly cooledwall .  the present solutions predict thata larger amount of coolant wouldbe required at a given large mach numberand yaw angle than would be predictedfrom solutions of the correspondingincompressible-boundary-layerequations .
  local heat-transfer coefficients,temperature recovery factors, andpressure distributions were measuredon a circular cylinder at a nominalmach number of 3.9 over a range offree-stream reynolds numbers fromfrom 0 to 44 .  it was found that yawing thecylinder reduced the local heat-transfercoefficients, the average heat-transfercoefficients, and the pressuredrag coefficients over the front sideof the cylinder .  for example, atis reduced by 34 percent and thepressure drag by 60 percent .  theamount of reduction may be predicted bya theory presented herein .  localtemperature recovery factors were alsoreduced by yaw, but the amount ofreduction is small compared to thereduction in heat-transfer coefficients .  a comparison of these data withother data obtained under widelydifferent conditions of body and streamtemperature, mach number, andreynolds number indicates that thesefactors have little effect upon thedropoff of heat transfer due to yaw .
  pressure-distribution and forcetests of a circular cylinder havebeen made in the langley 11-inchhypersonic tunnel at a mach number ofbased on diameter, and angles ofattack up to 90 .  the results arecompared with the hypersonic approximationof grimminger, williams, andyoung and with a simple modificationof the newtonian flow theory .  thecomparison of experimental resultsshows that either theory gives adequategeneral aerodynamic characteristicsbut that the modified newtoniantheory gives a more accurateprediction of the pressure distribution .the calculated crossflow dragcoefficients plotted as a functionof crossflow mach number were foundto be in reasonable agreement withsimilar results obtained from otherinvestigations at lower supersonicmach numbers .  comparison of theresults of this investigation withdata obtained at a lower mach numberindicates that the drag coefficientof a cylinder normal to the flow isrelatively constant for mach numbersabove about 4 .
  an approximate theory on the phenomena of interaction betweenthe shock wave and the laminar boundary layer on an insulatedflat plate at hypersonic speeds has been formulated .  resultson the rate of growth of the boundary-layer thickness andthe rate of decay of the shock-wave strength have been foundthat hold for .  a new set of formulasfor the average skin-friction coefficient, over an insulatedflat plate at hypersonic speeds has been obtained .  calculationson the basis of the new formulas yield the data shown in figs.steady decrease in as increases, the present results indicatethat may increase with at hypersonic mach numbers.
the boundary layer on a slender body tends to be very thick at hypersonicspeeds . it interacts with the external flow by producing largerflow deflections near the leading edge than those due to the body aloneflow around the boundary layer gives rise to an induced pressure with anegative gradient which thins the boundary layer and increases the skinfriction with respect to the zero pressure gradient value .experiments on a flat plate with a sharp leading edge have been performedin the galcit 5-dash by 5-dash in. mach 5.8 hypersonic windtunnel . the induced pressure was measured by means of orifices in theplate surface . profiles of mach number, velocity, mass flow, pressure,and momentum deficiency were calculated from impact pressure surveysnormal to the plate surface made at various distances from the leadingedge .the results are as follows . /1/ the induced pressures are 25 per centhigher than the weak interaction theory . /2/ the boundary layer and the external flow are distinctly separate for as low as 6,000 . /3/ theshock wave location is in good agreement with that predicted by thefriedrichs theory for a body shape equivalent to the observed boundarylayerdisplacement thickness . /4/ expansion waves reflected from theshock are weak . /5/ the average skin-friction coefficient tends towardand nearly matches the zero pressure gradient value downstream, but increasesto approximately twice that value as the leading edge is approached.
  analytical solutions of the prandtl boundary-layer equations are obtainedfor the problem of the /strong/ interaction between the leadingedgeshock and the viscous layer over a flat plate at hypersonicvelocities .  as the mach number increases and the interaction regionspreads downstream over the plate, the local skin-friction coefficientincreases rapidly over its conventional value .  the local heat-transfercoefficient at first remains practically unaffected but then also beginsto increase with mach number .
  an investigation was conducted in a hypersonicshock tunnel to determine the local heat transferrates for a sharp leading edge flat plate .  the freestream mach number range was 7.95 to 25.1 withstagnation temperatures of approximately 2550and 6500 r .  for these temperature and machnumber conditions, the strong interaction parameter,varied from 2.35 to 826 .  thecorresponding knudsen numbers, based on theratio of the free stream mean free path and theleading edge thickness, varied from 0.38 to 85.5 .for free stream mach numbers greater than 10,knudsen numbers of approximately unity, andperfect gas conditions, the calculated heat transfercoefficients were found to vary as as predictedby the noninsulated flat plate theory of liand nagamatsu .  for the case of,the leading edge slip phenomenon drasticallyreduced the local heat transfer coefficientsas compared to the theoretical values predictedwith no slip at the surface .  for the extreme case of and,the measured localheat transfer rate was an order of magnitudeless than the analytical value .  both the knudsennumber and the free stream mach number areimportant physical parameters that determine theextent of the slip-flow region .
two important features of hypersonic flow over slender or thin bodiesare the displacement effect of the boundary layer and the large downstreaminfluence of leading-edge bluntness . the present paper contributesnew theoretical and experimental results on this problem .the interaction of the two effects is treated theoretically by extending the basic shock-layer concept . in the outer inviscid flow, a modelconsisting of a detached shock layer and an entropy layer is introducedto account for bluntness . in the boundary layer, the approximate solutionis found to be governed by a local flat-plate similarity . underthe assumption of a strong bow shock and a specific heat ratio close tounity, a theory is developed for an arbitrary thin body . for flat-plate afterbodies, the theory yields a solution agreeing with blast-wavetheory at one limit and strong-interaction theory at the other . withinthe framework of the present theory, the problems involving angle ofattack are also analyzed . complementary to the above study, a hypersonicsimilitude involving strong shocks, but not requiring close to one a natural comparison with experimental data correlated on the basis ofthis similitude .flat-plate experiments in air, conducted in the c.a.l. 11 x 15-dashin.hypersonic shock tunnel under cold-wall conditions, included measurement of surface heat-transfer distributions and schlieren studies for zeroand nonzero angle of attack . steady laminar heat-transfer rates weremeasured by means of thin-film resistance thermometers at air test-flowmach numbers around 12, free-stream reynolds numbers from 1.4 x 10 to 1.for most of the experiments, airflow stagnation temperatures ranged fromratios of about 0.15 . the range of test conditions at this stagnationtemperature encompassed the limiting cases of dominant bluntness anddominant viscous-interaction effects . heat-transfer distributions werealso measured on a sharp plate for air stagnation temperatures rangingfrom 2,000degreek up to 4,000degreek .the experimental data are quite well correlated in terms of the foregoingtheoretical similitude variables characterizing combined effectsof boundary-layer displacement and bluntness . the correlations obtained suggest that for the present experimental conditions, at least, thehypersonic viscous similitude is valid even with leading-edge bluntness in the paper, is generally fair .
  an extension of classical hypersonic similitude is developedwhich takes into account the interaction effect of the displacementthickness of the boundary layer .  a basic result of thisviscous similitude is that the total drag including frictional dragobeys the classical similarity law for the pressure drag .  additionalsimilarity conditions governing viscous effects must beimposed in this similitude .  underlying the similitude is a new hypersonic boundary-layerindependence principle .  according to this principle, the principalpart of a hypersonic boundary layer with given pressureand wall temperature distributions and free-stream total enthalpyis independent of the (high) external mach number distributionoutside the boundary layer .  various features of viscous hypersonic similitudes are discussed.  it is found, for example, that it applies to three-dimensionalboundary-layer interaction effects on flat bodies, providedthe concepts of strip theory may be applied, and provided theaspect ratio is an invariant .
one-dimensional inviscid nonequilibrium flows of a two-component modelgas are studied for prescribed pressure variations and an average reactionrate based on recent data for oxygen recombination . these flowsare interpreted in relation to the flow along streamlines around blunthypersonic bodies . assuming equilibrium conditions in the subsonicregion, it is estimated that the flow in the initial supersonic expansionregion, which is approximately of prandtl-meyer character, will bechemically frozen with respect to the molecular dissociation of theprimary components under the hypersonic, high-altitude flight conditions considered . the flight conditions consist of flight velocities betweenfurthermore, on bodies of small surface inclination beyond the nose, the flow will continue to be effectively frozen for at least 20 ft downstreamof the nose . these conclusions may lead to the simplification of procedures for theoretical calculation and testing .the problem of distinguishing a dimensionless length-reaction rate parameter,which characterizes the extent of departures from equilibrium or from frozen behavior in the flow fields of interest here, is discussed
the flow of an ideal dissociating gas through a nearly conical nozzle is considered . the equations of one-dimensional motion are solved numericallyassuming a simple rate equation together with a number of differentvalues for the rate constant . these calculations suggest thatdeviations from chemical equilibrium will occur in the nozzle if therate constant lies within a very wide range of values, and that, oncesuch a deviation has begun, the gas will very rapidly 'freeze' . thedissociation fraction will then remain almost constant if the flow isexpanded further, or even if it passes through a constant area section . an approximate method of solution, making use of this property of sudden'freezing' of the flow, has been developed and applied to the problemof estimating the deviations from equilibrium under a wide range of conditions . if all the assumptions made in this paper are accepted,then lack of chemical equilibrium may be expected in the working sectionsof hypersonic wind tunnels and shock tubes . the shape of anoptimum nozzle is derived in order to minimize this departure fromequilibrium .it is shown that, while the test section conditions are greatly affected by 'freezing', the flow behind a normal shock wave is only changedslightly . the heat transfer rate and drag of a blunt body are estimated to be reduced by only about 25 per cent even if complete freezingoccurs . however, the shock wave shape is shown to be rather more sensitiveto departures from equilibrium .
high reynolds number hypersonic stagnation flow over a blunt-nosed bodyin a nonequilibrium dissociated free stream is analyzed and compared toa similar flow in an initially undissociated ambient gas . free streamdissociation effects on various equilibrium stagnation flow propertiesin air are presented as a function of the ambient atom mass fraction and dissociation energy for velocities ranging from 15,000 to 25,000 fps .significant changes in the bow shock geometry, stagnation gas state, and boundary layer behavior are found when the free stream dissociationinvolves more than 10( of the total energy . it is observed that forlarge amounts of both atomic oxygen and nitrogen ahead of the body, theequilibrium shock layer properties converge toward those pertaining tochemically and vibrationally-frozen flow across the bow shock . moreover,under certain conditions, the ionization level can be increased by an order of magnitude and the usual reduction in frozen boundary layerheat transfer due to a highly-cooled noncatalytic surface can increasefrom stall of adjacent stages .the effects of compromises of stage matching to favor part-speed operationwere also considered . this phase of the study indicated thatsuch compromises would severely reduce the complete-compressor-stallmargin . furthermore, the low-speed stage stall problem is transferredfrom the inlet stages to the middle stages, which are more susceptibleto abrupt-stall characteristics .the analysis indicates that inlet stages having continuous performancecharacteristics at their stall points are desirable with respect topart-speed compressor performance . these characteristics must, however, be obtained when the stages are operating in the flow environment ofthe multistage compressor . alleviation of part-speed operational problemsmay also be obtained by improvement in either stage flow range orstage loading margin .the results of this analysis are only qualitative . the trends obtained, however, are in agreement with those obtained from experimental studies of high-pressure-ratio multistage axial-flow compressors, and the resultsare valuable in developing an understanding of the off-designproblem . in addition to these stage-matching studies, a general discussionof variable-geometry features such as air bleed and adjustable gas model . numerical solutions of non-equilibrium airflows with fullycoupled chemistry provide a preliminary verification of such scaling forlimit characteristics . the analysis indicated that all these problemscould be attributed to discontinuities in the performance characteristicsof the front stages . such discontinuities can be due to the type of stage stall or to a deterioration of stage performance resultingblades is included .
  tsien in a recent paper (j. math. phys. mass. inst. tech.sonic flows around slender bodies and has pointed out thatthe product of mach number and fineness ratio is a basicsimilarity parameter .  the author enlarges on this notion,indicating that the problem of hypersonic flow about aslender body in three dimensions is the same as that of acertain two-dimensional nonsteady flow (with time replacingthe lengthwise spatial coordinate) characterized by essentiallythe same similarity parameter .
stage-stacking study . the principal problems considered were poor lowspeedefficiency, multiple-valued performance characteristics at intermediatespeeds, and poor intermediate-speed compressor surge or stallcompressor operation with one or more blade rows stalled .an analysis of the part-speed operating problems of high-pressure-ratio air .
  lagrangian methods in heat-flow problems and transportphenomena were introduced by the writer in some previous work .the present paper develops further one particular aspect of themethod,--i.e., the elimination of /ignorable coordinates ./  thisis accomplished by a special choice of generalized coordinates,each of which is constituted by an arbitrary temperature distributionand an /associated flow field ./  the latter is a vectorfield which is derived from the corresponding scalar field by a variationalmethod .  the procedure is valid for a certain class of nonlinearproblems, provided we replace the temperature by the heatcontent as the unknown .  it is shown that for normal coordinatesderivation of the associated flow field is immediate .  the useof normal coordinates and their associated flow fields is illustratedby an example .  introduction of dirac functions andassociated flow fields yields a procedure which constitutes ageneralization of the classical formulation by green's functionsand integral equations .  this is illustrated by application to onedimensionalproblems of heating of a homogeneous or compositeslab and directly verified by classical methods in the appendix .
  based on the variational formulation of linear thermodynamicsas developed previously by the writer, thermomechanicalreciprocity relations are discussed which lead to new methods ofanalysis of thermal stresses .  these reciprocity relations are quitedifferent from the usual ones derived from the analogy of thermalloading with a combination of surface and body-force distribution .the results are applicable to stationary and transient temperaturesin elastic and viscoelastic structures .  the methods areentirely variational and do not require the evaluation of thetemperature field .  the stresses at one point are expressed directlyin terms of any arbitrary distribution temperatures appliedexternally, including the effect of surface heat-transfer layer .the concepts and procedures are illustrated on a simple example.  the relation is pointed out between the reciprocityproperty and the generalization of castigliano's principle tothermomechanics .
the basis of any thermal-stress analysis is the determination of thetemperature distributions in the structure .  for arbitrary flighthistories, the determination of such distributions is rather tediousand not completely general .  this latter fact handicaps optimizationstudies in the project design stage when it is desirable to be able toexpress the thermal-stress distributions in a general manner .in this note, general expressions are derived for the thermal-stressdistributions in a typical i-section using similar assumptions tothose of biot .
an approximate method, known as theheat-balance integral, is used to determine themelting rate of a finite slab which is initiallyat a uniform temperature below the meltingpoint .  the slab is acted upon by aconstant heat input at one face and has its otherface either insulated or kept at its initialtemperature .  the first three terms of seriessolutions in an intrinsically small parameterare obtained for the time histories ofmelting and the temperature distribution in the slab .
in the analysis of one-dimensional fluid-flow problems, it is oftenassumed that the behavior of the medium is that of a perfect gas .this assumption is justified, provided the pressure and temperaturerange of interest is small and near atmospheric .  at higher pressuresand temperatures various deviations are introduced thereby causingdeviations from the results obtained by using the ideal fluid-flowequations .in this note, influence coefficients, similar to those developed byshapiro, are presented for the case of real gases .  this analysis isbased upon the use of various functions of the compressibility factoremmons .  some of the assumptions made were as follows..  (1) the flowis one-dimensional and steady, (2) changes in the stream propertiesare continuous, and (3) the flow is comprised of imperfect gases
  the nonlinear boundary value problem, whereand m are constants, is solved formally by firstintroducing power series in t for the unknown temperatureand flux at the surface and then determining the coefficientsin those series .  in this manner the temperature function isdetermined as a series of repeated integrals of error functions.  the convergence is rapid only for small values of t .the special cases and generalizations ofthe condition at the surface for which the same methodapplies, are noted .  surface temperatures are also found bymethods of difference equations, where t is not limited tosmall values .  graphs of these temperatures correspondingto various laws of heat transfer at the surface are shown .
  a study has been made of the time-dependent heatconduction in a semi-infinite medium subject to aboundary condition which can involve the temperaturein a nonlinear manner .  a formulation for thedetermination of the surface temperature, which is oftenof greatest physical interest, leads to a nonlinearvolterra integral equation .  a simple iterative solutionmethod, with an accuracy suitable for many practicalpurposes is presented .  as an example, the problemof the time-dependent surface temperature of a bodyreceiving heat according to the stefan-boltzmann lawis treated .  the analysis is also applicable to physicaladsorption or chemisorption processes which occur atthe boundary .
  this very short paper presents an approximate procedure for thecalculation of unsteady heat conduction in semi-infinite solidswith variable thermal properties .  it is claimed to be an improvementover previous efforts in this area since it yields physicallysensible results for cases where thermal properties have a largedependence on temperature .  instead of using polynomials to representan unsteady temperature profile an exponential form is used .good agreement is shown for several cases where the method ofthe paper is compared with exact solutions .
the variational and lagrangian thermodynamics developed in earlierpublications are directly applicable to problems of heat conductionwith melting boundaries .  these techniques are used here in treatingthe problem of a half-space subjected to a constant rate of heat inputat the melting surface (fig. 1) .the applicability of the lagrangian equations to this case followsfrom the fact that the basic variational principle is valid whether theboundaries are fixed or move as arbitrary functions of time .  thiscan be seen if we remember that the equations govern only the instantaneousconfiguration of the flow rates for a given geometry andtemperature field .
an analysis of the part-speed operating problems of high-pressure-ratioratio multistage axial-flow compressors was made by means of asimplified stage-stacking study .  the principal problems consideredwere poor low-speed efficiency, multiple-valued performance characteristicsat intermediate speeds, and poor intermediate-speed compressorsurge or stall-limit characteristics . the analysis indicated that allthese problems could be attributed to discontinuities in the performancecharacteristics of the front stages . such discontinuities can be dueto the type of stage stall or to a deterioration of stage performanceresulting from stall of adjacent stages .  the effects of compromises of stage matching to favor part-speed operationwere also considered . this phase of the study indicated that suchcompromises would severly reduce the complete-compressor-stall margin .furthermore, the low-speed stage stall problem is transferred from theinlet stages to the middle stages, which are more susceptible toabrupt-stall characteristics .  the analysis indicates that inlet stages having continuous performancecharacteristics at their stall points are desirable with respect topart-speed compressor performance . these characteristics must, however,be obtained when the stages are operating in the flow environment of themultistage compressor . alleviation of part-speed operation problems mayalso be obtained by improvement in either stage flow range or stage-loadingmargin .  the results of this analysis are only qualitative . the trends obtained,however, are in agreement with those obtained from experimentalstudies of high-pressure-ratio multistage axial-flow compressors, andthe results are valuable in developing an understanding of the off-designproblem . in addition to these stage-matching studies, a generaldiscussion of variable-geometry features such as air bleed and adjustableblades is included .
observations of rotating stall have shown that a wide varietyof stall patterns is possible .     hot-wire anemometer data on a multistage compressor haveshown a progressive-type stall at low speeds . the amplitudeof the flow fluctuations increases in magnitude through the firstfew stages and then diminishes rapidly to a small value in thelatter stages . a stage-stacking analysis has shown that rotatingstall will exist over a large portion of the compressor map at lowspeeds but will be instigated almost simultaneously with compressorsurge at high speeds .     blades failures attributable to resonant vibrations excited byrotating stall have been experienced in single  and multistagecompressors .      in the stage-stacking analysis no deterioration of stage performancedue to unsteady flow resulting from stall of adjacent stageswas considered . in general, the pressure drop at the stall pointis believed to be much larger than indicated by an analytical formulationof compressor performance . compressor surge is attributedto a limit cycle operation about the compressor stallpoint, and, as indicated in a few compressor tests and in jet-enginetests, a small compressor discharge receiver volume mayresult simply in stall of the compressor without the cyclic characteristicsof compressor surge . in this event, engine operationwill be limited because of the large drop in performance whichaccompanies compressor stall  .
the use of stage characteristics obtained from test data in the performanceanalysis and development of an axial-flow compressor is describedrelative stage matching as shown by an idealized example and also bytest experience . factors governing major performance parameters arediscussed and certain development problems and possible solutions arereviewed .
discussion of a similarity between the pressure-ratio versus inletmass-flow-coefficientcharacteristic of a stream or gas turbine and theanalogous characteristic of an expansion /laval/ nozzle . this idea isextended to a compressor and a compression nozzle, and an approximateexpression for the /choke line/ of the compressor is developed .
the main types of axial compressors are described, and the use of generalizeddesign curves to make performance estimates is advocated . thedifferent variables are weight, power, pressure ratio, temperature rise, mass flow, rotational speed, stage efficiency, blade bending stressesdue to aerodynamic loading, and methods and materials of construction .air outlets, flow coefficients and different blade forms are also considered.
  some of the theories for two-dimensional oscillatory air forceswhich may be applied in flutter calculations at high mach numbersare discussed .  these include linear theory, van dyke'ssecond-order theory, piston theory, landahl's method, tangentwedgeand tangent-cone approximations, newtonian theory, anda new nonlinear-pressure method .  a comparison of the theoriesis made by showing the results of flutter calculations for machnumbers up to 10, and the possibility of flutter at these highermach numbers is pointed out .  results of flutter calculations are shown to illustrate the variouseffects arising from a nonlinear thickness theory .  the possibilityof large flutter speed thickness effects which depend on frequencyratio is shown .  the influence of airfoil shape is discussedand flutter speed trends with center of gravity and elastic axislocations are presented .  some possible refinements of pistontheory are discussed for use at very high mach numbers .  theseinclude the use of local flow conditions and the use of newtoniantheory over the leading edge of a blunt-nosed airfoil .
this paper discusses the basic principles employed in techniques for the measurement of oscillatory derivatives in wind tunnels, and gives someaccount of the associated instrumentation . the suitability of the varioustechniques for different test conditions is also discussed andbrief reference is made to wind tunnel effects on the measurements .
  a modified technique for the operation of a gun tunnel issuggested based on experimental results .  if the piston mass and theinitial barrel pressure are chosen correctly, then the peak pressuresassociated with the gun tunnel may be eliminated .  under theseconditions the piston is brought to rest with no overswing .  somemeasurements of the piston motion using a microwave technique arereported which confirm this idea .  the wave diagram associated with this mode of operation isshown, and some calculations of the stagnation pressure are given whichshow that during the suggested running time, the stagnation pressuremay be considerably greater than the driving pressure if the drivingchamber cross-sectional area is large compared with that of the drivensection .  for a uniform shock tube the stagnation pressure will alwaysbe less than the driving pressure .  the use of air, helium andhydrogen as driving gases has been considered .  experiments in a gun tunnel are reported which show that theequilibrium piston technique enables steady stagnation pressures to beachieved over a time of approximately 15 ms using air as the drivinggas .  the expansion caused by the piston acceleration is shown tointeract with the stationary piston, but this is found to produce only asmall drop in stagnation pressure .
it is shown that the rotational stiffness of a crossed flexure pivotvaries considerably when subjected to an applied force . the type ofvariation can be radically changed simply by moving the point at whichthe strips cross . the relation between torque and rotation for a givenapplied force is not exactly linear and the extent of the non-linearityis determined by taking into account the small movements of the centreof rotation of the pivot . finally, for design purposes, an analysis ofthe maximum stresses in the strips is given .
direct pitching moment derivatives have been measured using the methodof scruton, woodgate et al for two single wedge blunt-nosed aerofoils .these measurements were made at mach numbers of 1.75 and 2.47 and frequencyparameters less than 0.02 . in general, nose blunting was foundto have little effect on the derivatives although changes were observedfor the thinner wedge at a mach number of 1.75 .
the measurement of rocket exhaust effects on vehicle stability and themeasurement of aerodynamic damping were made in an arc-discharge type of hypervelocity wind tunnel . sample data are given to indicate thequality of data obtainable in this tunnel, and samples of self-luminousand shadowgraph photographs are also presented .
  the problem of determining the totalforces, moments, and stabilityderivatives for a slender body performingslow maneuvers in a compressiblefluid is treated within the assumptionsof slender-body theory .  generalexpressions for the total forces (exceptdrag) and moments are developedin terms of the geometry and motions ofthe airplane, and formulas forthe stability derivatives are derived interms of the mapping functionsof the cross sections .  all components of the motion aretreated simultaneously and secondderivatives as well as first are obtained,with respect to both themotion components and their time rates ofchange .  coupling of the longitudinaland lateral motions is thusautomatically included .  a number ofgeneral relationships among the variousstability derivatives are foundwhich are independent of the configuration,so that, at most, only 35of a total of 325 first and secondderivatives need be calculateddirectly .  calculations of stabilityderivatives are carried out for twotriangular wings with camber and thickness,one with a blunt trailingedge, and for two wing-body combinations, one having a plane wing andvertical fin .  the influence on the stabilityderivatives of the squared terms inthe pressure relation is demonstrated,and the apparent mass concept asapplied to slender-body theory is discussedat some length in the lightof the present analysis .  it is shown thatthe stability derivatives canbe calculated by apparent mass although thegeneral expressions for thetotal forces and moments involve additional terms .
  comparisons are made betweenlow-speed experimental results andestimates based on attached-flowtheory for the lateral stabilityderivatives of slender wings atincidence, and it is found that the flowseparation has little effect onthe sideslip derivatives .  the reductionin due to part-span anhedralis evaluated, and a semi-empirical formulais derived to account for importantsecond-order terms .  for the rotaryderivatives, an attempt is madeto estimate the effect of the leading edgevortices, but no satisfactoryconclusions have been reached .  the fin contributions tothe derivatives are evaluated on the basisof treating the wing surface asa total reflection plate .  good agreementwith experiment is reached forthe sideslip derivatives, and for thedamping-in-yaw at moderate incidences .sidewash is found to have a largeeffect on the rolling derivatives,and further information on the strengthand position of the leading edgevortices in non-symmetric flow is requiredbefore a complete calculation ofthe sidewash can be given .
  the flow past a slender deltawing with a sharp leading edge, atincidence, usually separates alongthis edge, i.e. a vortex layer extendsfrom the edge and rolls up to forma /core/ (a region of high vorticity) .a potential flow model of this isconstructed in which the layer isreplaced by a vortex sheet whichis rolled up into a spiral in the regionof the /core/ .  this problemis reduced to a two-dimensional one by assuminga conical field and usingslender wing theory .  the shape and strengthof the sheet are determined bythe two conditions that it is a streamsurface and sustains no pressuredifference .  use is made of resultspreviously obtained for the coreregion and the remaining finite part ofthe sheet is dealt with by choosingcertain functions for its shape andstrength .  the parameters in thesefunctions are found by satisfying thetwo conditions stated above atisolated points .  results are obtained forthe pressure distribution, chordloading and norman force coefficient asfunctions of the ratio of theincidence to the apex angle .  the lift for agiven incidence is about 15below that found by brown and michael .  flowpatterns are indicated in twotypical cases .  the effect of separation onthe drag due to lift of a wingwith small thickness is discussed .
  this is the first of three parts ofthe calibration report on the r.a.e.  some details of the design and lay-outof the plant are given, togetherwith the calculated performance figures,and the major components of thefacility are briefly described .  the instrumentation provided forthe wind-tunnel is described in somedetail, including the optical and othermethods of flow visualization usedin the tunnel .  later parts will describe thecalibration of the flow in the workingsection,including temperature measurements .a discussion of the heaterperformance will also be included aswell as the results of tests to determinestarting and running pressure ratios,blockage effects, model starting loads,and humidity of the air flow .
tests on the storage heater, which is cylindrical in form and mountedhorizontally, show that its performance is adequate for operationat m=6.8 and probably adequate for flows at m=8.2 with the existingnozzles .  in its present state, the maximum design temperature of 680degrees centigrade for operation at m=9 cannot be realised in the tunnelbecause of heat loss to the outlet attachments of the heater and quickactingvalve which form, in effect, a large heat sink .  because of thisheat loss there is rather poor response of stagnation temperaturein the working section at the start of a run .  it is hoped to cure thisby preheating the heater outlet cone and the quick-acting valve .at pressures greater than about 100 p.s.i.g. free convection through thefibrous thermal insulation surrounding the heated core causes the topof the heater shell to become somewhat hotter than the bottom, whichresults in /hogging/ distortion of the shell .  this free convectioncools the heater core and a vertical temperature gradient is set upacross it after only a few minutes at high pressure .modifications to be incorporated in the heater to improve its performanceare described .
the fused silica nozzle to give m=7 in the 7 in. x 7 in. hypersonicwind tunnel produces a flow field with an average mach number of 6.85along the centreline of the working section .  the mach number graduallydecreases towards the boundary layer, and over a core of approximatelymach number .the nozzle heats up during a run but this has little effect on themach number distribution .  at one station the mach number was one-thirdper cent greater for a run of 1 minute than for a run of 10 seconds .the temperature field in the inviscid flow has an average variation ofin temperature with time throughout a run .
pressure measurements were made on a slender cone-cylinder-flare configuration,slightly blunted at the nose, for 0, 3 and 6 degrees incidenceat a free-stream mach number of 6.8 .it was found that the surface pressures obtained on the cone agreed with extrapolations to m equals 6.8 of theoretical values given in m.i.t.tables /kopal/for yawed cones, and that impact theory gave a good indicationof the pressure level to be expected on all parts of the bodywhere surface incidence was sufficiently large to merit its use .the semi-angles of the conical and flared parts of the model were boththe pressure level on the flare rose in all cases to approximately thatdeveloped upstream on the cone surface .no evidence of a marked over-expansion to pressures below the freestreamvalue was noticed at the junction between cone and cylinder .
this note gives formulae and approximations suitable for making preliminaryestimates of aerodynamic heating rates in high speed flight .the formulae are based on the /intermediate enthalpy/ approximationwhich has given good agreement with theoretical and experimental evidence. in the general flight case they could be used in conjunction with an analogue computer or a step-by-step method of integration to predictthe variations of heat flow and skin temperature with time .in the restricted case of flight at constant altitude and mach number,simple analytical methods and results are given which include the effectsof radiation and can be applied to /thick/ as well as /thin/ skinswhere h is the aerodynamic heat transfer factor, and g, d and k are theheat capacity, thickness and thermal conductivity of the skin . if 0.1the skin is approximately /thin/, i.e. temperature gradients across itsthickness may be neglected .
  this paper is an extension of the work of hartmann (2) and sherclifftransverse magnetic fields -- the simplest class of magnetohydrodynamicproblems .  we are concerned here mainly with the boundary valueproblems associated with flow in ducts with conducting walls .
hot-wire measurements in the free stream of a supersonic wind tunnelwere made in the mach number range of 1.6 to 5.0 . it is shown that themass-flow fluctuations increase very rapidly with increasing mach number. if the fluctuation field is assumed to consist of sound waves-dashan assumption that is consistent with the measurements-dashthe soundintensity is approximately proportional to m, within the range of theexperiments . furthermore, the orientation of the field is found to bedifferent from the mach line direction,. it corresponds to a soundsourcevelocity of approximately one-half the free-stream velocity forthe higher mach numbers . it is shown that the turbulent boundary layeralong the nozzle and the tunnel walls is responsible for this soundfield .
  this note collects together in one report available theoretical workon bodies which can support attached plane shock waves, discusses someof the possible merits of such shapes, and includes some calculationsillustrating their properties .  also, some preliminary results fromwind tunnel tests are given, together with details of proposed futuretests .
  the three-dimensional incompressible flow of fluid along the corner oftwo semi-infinite plates intersecting at right angles, especially theinterference of the boundary layers of the two plates, is discussed .mainly, the more important case of turbulent boundary layer is treatedby means of experimental studies carried out at the technical universityof braunschweig .  some theoretical results for laminar flow are alsotaken into account .  in order to describe the interference effects in the boundary layer,an interference displacement thickness and an interference skin frictionhave been introduced .  it is shown from experiments and also from theoreticalconsiderations how these two quantities depend on reynoldsnumber .  furthermore, the influence of interference on the transitionfrom laminar to turbulent flow is investigated .  in addition, somepreliminary results are given about the effect of the pressure gradienton the interference effects .
  following a major assumption that enthalpy and velocity are dependentonly on local conditions, an enthalpy-velocity relationis obtained for the laminar boundary layer on a flat plate where subscriptsp refer to the plate, 1 to the free stream and e to theequilibrium temperature condition at the plate .  when compared withgeneral results, this relation (exact for prandtl number o = 1)gives a close approximation to crocco's numerical results for o = 0.725and 1.25, up to .  using the above relation in conjunction with the approximateviscosity-temperature relation suggested by chapman and rubesin, andwith young's suggested first approximation for shearing stress it isshown that close approximations to displacement thickness and velocitydistribution are given by and where and which serves to define c .  these have the advantage of being algebraic in form whereas previousresults have involved complex numerical integrations for individualcases .
  wind tunnel tests have been madeto measure pressure distributionsand to study flow patterns on a seriesof delta wings of inverted 'v'cross-section .  each of these wingswas designed to have a plane shockwave in the plane of the leading edgesat a chosen mach number and incidence .  it was found that for a wideincidence range about the design pointthe shock wave remained virtuallyattached to the leading edges and ateach incidence the pressure wasapproximately constant over the lowersurface .
the effect of air drag on satellite orbits of small eccentricity e/0.2/is studied analytically by a perturbation method, on the assumption that the atmosphere is spherically symmetrical . equations are derived which show/1/how orbital period and perigee distance vary with eccentricityas the orbit contracts, and/2/how each of these quantities varies withtime . the equations of type/1/are nearly independent of the oblatenessof the atmosphere . in all the equations, terms of order e and higherare usually neglected . the results are also presented graphically, in a manner designed for practical use .the theory is to be extended to an oblate atmosphere in part ii, andwill later be compared with observation .
part ii . with oblate atmosphere .the effect of air drag on satellite orbits of small eccentricity e/0.2/was studied in part i/technical note no.g.w.533/on the assumption thatthe atmosphere was spherically symmetrical . here the theory is extended to an atmosphere in which the surfaces of constant density arespheroids of arbitrary small ellipticity . equations are derived whichshow how perigee distance and orbital period vary with eccentricity, and how eccentricity is related to time . expressions are also obtainedwhich give lifetime and air density at perigee in terms of the rate ofchange of period . in most of the equations, terms of order e and higher are neglected . the results take different forms according as theeccentricity is greater or less than about 0.025, while circular orbitsare dealt with in a separate section . the results are also presentedgraphically in a manner designed for practical application, and examples of the theory in use are given .the influence of atmospheric oblateness is difficult to summarize fairlysimultaneously assume their'worst'values, some of the sphericalatmosphereresults can be altered by up to 30( as a result of oblatenessand 5-10( would be a more representative figure .
the effect of air drag on satellite orbits of eccentricity e less thanbetween 0.2 and 1 is presented . equations are derived which show howperigee distance and orbital period vary with eccentricity during thesatellite's life, and how eccentricity is related to time,.and formulaeare obtained for the lifetime and the air density at perigee, in termsof the rate of change of period . the results are also presentedgraphically and their implications and limitations are discussed .
a solution is obtained for the rate of change of semi-major axis andperigee distance of a satellite orbit with time due to the resistance of the atmosphere . the logarithm of air density is assumed to vary quadraticallywith height, and the oblateness of the atmosphere is takeninto account .the calculation of perigee air density in terms of the rate of changeof satellite period is dealt with,. and the method is applied to dataat present available on six different satellites . the variation of airdensity with height is obtained asin p-28.59/0.15/-h-200//46/5/0.028/0.013//h-200///46/for h in the range of approximately 170 to 700 km, where p is in grams/cm, h is in kilometres and standard deviations are given in brackets .
the theory previously developed for the changes in the perigee distanceand semi-major axis of a satellite orbit due to air drag is extended toenable the air-density profile/i.e.its relative variation with height/to be derived from the motion of the orbit's perigee . the solution isfirst obtained in terms of the change in perigee distance and then interms of the change in the radius of the earth at the sub-perigee point the scale height in the 180 and 220 km altitude regions .
the rate of decay of elliptic satellite orbits, due to atmospheric drag, is investigated through variation of parameters and through use of anatmospheric model involving a power function between density andaltitude . this model is shown to fit actual conditions better than anexponential function .the effects of the equatorial belt and the rotation of the earth areinvestigated . the conclusion is reached that through these anomaliesatmospheric drag substantially affects the orbit elements, especiallythose defining the orbit plane .an alternate approach of variation of parameters is presented, by whicha direct relation between period decay and instantaneous density conditionsis established . this approach, by itself specifically adequatefor prediction work, also opens an avenue for systematic and unifiedevaluation of observed decay .
the method previously described has been refined by taking into accountatmospheric rotation . further results are given from satellites oflatitude and season and day-to-night changes are reported .
atmospheric densities have been derived from artificial satellites inaltitudes 200-700 km. and from rockets up to about 200 km. to consolidatethe two sets of data, h.k. kallmann suggested a model with aexact form of this curve has now been derived . corrections for the is excellent .very close correlation between atmospheric density variations/h180 km./and the solar 20-cm. radiation implies that the origin of the'solareffect'may lie in the absorption of solar ultra-violet radiation .the atmospheric density curve between 180 and 200 km. shows atemperature inversion in the fl-layer . it is not yet possible to decide whether solar ultra-violet radiation as well as the solar he line andsolar x-ray radiation contribute to the heating of the fl-layer .diurnal and seasonal density variations at altitudes 210, 562 and 660km. have been derived from variations in acceleration of threesatellites/sputnik 3, vanguard 1 and 2/ . group averages of diurnalvariations are taken from different dates within the periodmay 15, 1958-october 1, 1959 . physcal conditions in the upper atmosphereare briefly summarized ..the'solar effect'originates in the fllayeras a result of heating by the solar he line at 304 a. diurnaldensity variation at 210 km. is only a few per cent . absorption ofsolar electromagnetic radiation in the f2-layer, and large heat conductivitycause intense diurnal density and temperature variations above
variations in air density between day and night in the region 190 to 280 km are found to be small/less than about 25(/ . the presence of apossible region of local heating at about 220 km which disappears atnight . the night-time density profile conforms with a constant scaleheight of 35/2/km.no definite variation of air density with latitude isevident apart from a possible increase of about 60(, which is indicatedby rather limited polar-region data . for other latitudes and seasons avariation of less than about 20( is indicated .
the'density scale height'h in the upper atmosphere is a measure of therate at which air density p varies with height y, being given byh-p//dp/dy/ . the value of h, although important because/with themolecular weight of the air/it determines the air temperature, has notas yet been well determined at heights above 200 km .this note develops methods for finding h from the decrease in asatellite's perigee height and from the decrease in the orbital periodof a satellite in a small-eccentricity orbit . these methods are thenapplied to all the 14 satellites found suitable for the purpose . the 44 values of h obtained, for heights of 200-450 km, represent an averageover day and night and probably have errors/s.d./of 5-10( . it is foundthat, as solar activity declined between 1957 and 1961, h decreasedgreatly ..e.g.at height 275 km, h decreased from 60 km in early 1958 toheight becomes much less rapid above 350 km, and are consistent with the supposition that h had low values, near 35 km, at heights near 250 km,for 1959-61 . the results could be greatly extended in scope andimproved in accuracy if more accurate orbits were available for shortlifetimesatellites .
in mixtures of two different gases or liquids, one constituentwill migrate spontaneously toward the warmer parts, andthe other toward the colder parts .  this phenomenon, knownas the soret effect, and its converse the dufour effect, werediscovered as early as 1856 and 1873 respectively .  the twoeffects can also be considered as a simultaneous transport ofmass and heat, or as a coupling between heat and mass transfer .the effects of this coupling have been neglected in all investigationsof heat transfer in multicomponent flow systems so far,on the a priori assumption that they are small .  in a recentpublication however, it was shown that they can be large inlaminar-boundary-layer-type flows with helium injection .  turbulent-boundary-layermeasurements and an analysis conductedat the heat transfer laboratory clearly showed significanteffects of the coupling on heat transfer and adiabatic wall temperature.  from additional measurements, the results of whichare presented below, it is possible to separate the heat flux at themodel wall into one part depending on the temperature gradientand a second part caused by the coupling .  it is shown thatthe latter exceeds the former, and hence the coupling may notbe neglected a priori without careful consideration .
  the performance theory for high-speed air-cushion vehiclesoperating in close proximity to the ground is developed .  theanalysis is restricted to cruise flight of vehicles of rectangularplanform employing an air pressure seal between the ground andthe vehicle along the two streamwise sides .  the variation ofthe optimum rearward deflection angle of the side jet pressureseal with speed for minimum overall power expenditure andmaximum range is found .  it is concluded that a mixed propulsionsystem (jet deflection plus propeller(s)) is required .volume flow and the corresponding fan pressure rise needed arealso calculated .  the maximum lift drag ratio is determined .  the maximum thickness ratios of the vehicles are consideredto be large compared with the ground-height vehicle-lengthratio .  two-dimensional airfoil theory is employed to show thatclose to stagnation conditions exist below the vehicles .  thelower-surface lift, pitching moment, and aerodynamic-centerlocation are determined .  the flow over the upper surface is identified with flow overmounds .  upper-surface lift coefficients are determined fortypical mound shapes .  it is shown that high total lift coefficients are theoreticallyobtainable with almost zero induced drag .  the conventionalinduced-drag power penalty is replaced by a sealing-air powerexpenditure, which is shown not to be excessive .
  the condition of immediate freezing of the mass fraction ofdissociated species of air at the equilibrium value behind theshock envelope prevails over a major portion of the flight spectrumassociated with lifting re-entry vehicles .  this is observedby means of order-of-magnitude considerations within the limitsof the present knowledge of chemical reaction rates for the constituentsof air .  accordingly, investigations of the viscous andinviscid hypersonic flow about blunt and sharp leading edgeslender bodies are made .  the investigations are generalized toconsider an arbitrary degree of dissociation in the ambient freestream .  this condition is included in order to allow comparisonwith the flow field about a model in the test section of a hypersonicfacility with dissociated air species present in the freestream .  inviscid frozen flow investigations are made for blunt andsharp leading edge slender body power-law geometries .  theresults indicate that the influence of a finite leading edge, ininducing a pressure field far downstream (/blast-wave/ analogy),is considerably diminished for this model .  this conclusion isverified numerically by a characteristics solution for the hypersonicflow about a /sonic-wedge/ slab .  the viscous investigations consider the boundary-layerinteraction problem with a frozen degree of dissociation .  inthis case, as in the inviscid analysis, the governing parameter isobserved to be the ratio of the dissociationenergy to the free-stream kinetic energy .  the influenceof this parameter on the boundary-layer interactionmechanism for a highly cooled, noncatalytic wall is presented .the influence of a frozen flow field on skin friction and heattransfer is also discussed .  finally, since higher mach number gas flows may be generatedin wind tunnel nozzles where dissociation nonequilibrium effectsare present, the possibility of employing expansions with acontrolled degree of dissociation as a technique for aerodynamicsimulation is presented .
  for a family of cones of various semiapex angles blunted byspherical caps, shock shapes and surface pressure distributionshave been obtained from both the belotserkovskii method andexperiment .  these results are used to study convergence toconical flow .  conditions leading to both overexpansion andunderexpansion on the surface with respect to the asymptoticconical pressures are described as well as conditions leading tobow shock inflection points .  conditions also exist for which asecond shock may occur, or for which the sonic line cannot touchthe body surface .  the implications of these conditions forvarious blunt-body methods are discussed .  for cones bluntedin such a manner as to keep the flow entirely supersonic, the flowfield is found to exhibit certain similarities with that for genuineblunting .  this is related to the fact that the surface entropylayer for blunt bodies can be most influential, in determining surfacepressure, in the interior of the flow field rather than nearthe surface .
  the flutter problem of flat circular panels with edges elasticallyrestrained against rotation has been formulated in terms of smalldeflectionplate theory .  the panel is subjected to uniform allroundtension or compression in its middle plane, in addition tothe supersonic compressible flow passing over its upper surfacewith still air below .  linear piston theory is employed to predictthe aerodynamic load on the vibrating panel .  the problem is investigated by a rayleigh-type analysis involvingchosen modes of the panel as degrees of freedom .  in order to investigate the convergence of the solution, theflutter-mode shape of the clamped-edge panel has been expressedin a series form in powers of r cos o .  the results of three-, four-,and five-term approximations have displayed oscillatory behaviorwith apparently rapid convergence of the solution .
  an approximate method is used to obtain the injectiondistribution which would exist on an isothermal,transpiration-cooled hemisphere in a supersonic stream .this distribution is the same for both air and heliuminjection, and is independent of the blowing level .  amodel having this distribution was tested in the navalsupersonic laboratory wind tunnel at a mach numberof 3.53 .  it is concluded that the design technique isreasonably accurate .  data taken near the nose arecompared with the theories for air and helium injection.  the agreement in the case of the reduction inheat-transfer coefficient is good .  the values of insulatedwall temperature obtained near the nose withhelium injection are 8 percent above the local stagnationtemperature, and largely independent of injectionrate .  it is believed that this phenomenon may beattributed to the thermal diffusion of the helium withinthe boundary layer .  air injection causes a slight reductionin the insulated wall temperature .  it is shownthat injection of either air or helium at the hemispherenose considerably reduces the heat flux at the surface .the additional reduction in heat flux resulting fromhelium injection as opposed to air injection, and predictedby existing theory, is largely absent .
  second-order boundary layer disturbances aredue to the displacement of the main flow bythe boundary layer, surface curvature, freestreamvorticity, and slip .  a procedure for findingthese is given for compressible flow of a perfect gashaving a classically similar boundary layer .solutions are given for the flat plate and circularcylinder and for the hypersonic axisymmetricstagnation point .  for the latter flow, the dominanteffect is that of vorticity, which increasesboth shear and heat flux .  for the plate or cylinder,the same conclusion tends to hold for highspeed flow .  the vorticity effect is governed by theentire outer flow--not just the wall vorticity .
  paper describes results of numerical solution of the viscousshock-layer equations for axisymmetric stagnation region, usingthe viscosity-temperature law with w=0.65, pr=0.71 andy=1.25 .  purpose is to establish applicability of the simple approximationof w=1 (obtained earlier) to air at low reynoldsnumbers and low ratios of wall temperature to stagnationtemperature .  using a reference temperature (closely equal to eckert's)to interpret the linear results, excellent agreement is found,in the limit of, over a wide range of reynolds numbers,covering fully merged shock layers as well as boundary layerswith and without vorticity interaction .  agreement with recent experimentsof ferri et al is as good as to be expected from shocklayerapproximation .  paper provides valuable extension of the applicabilityof the reference temperature concept .
  pressure distributions have beenmeasured on a 10 thick two-dimensionalaerofoil of r.a.e.101 section fitted withsplit flaps deflected at 15 and 55 .measurements were made at two distancesabove a ground plate, and also withoutthe ground plate .  the results have beenintegrated to give the sectionallift, drag and pitching-moment coefficients .
  in the course of a larger survey of some aerodynamic characteristicsof a family of sweptback wings, the low-speed lift distributions werecalculated .  the 35 planforms considered cover a range of leading-edgesweep angles from 55 to 70, and aspect ratios from 2 to 3.9 .  theresults are given here, together with a comparison with othercalculations and with experimental results on one particular wing .
  the method of generalised conicalflows has previously been developedsubject to the condition that theupwash divided by the streamwiseco-ordinate to the power k, wherek is the order of the conical flow, musthave vanishing (k+1)th derivativewith respect to the conical co-ordinate .  in the present note this restriction is removed .  the results are also used todiscuss the effect of the application ofthe leading edge attachment conditionon the wing pressure and geometry .
  results are presented from a wind-tunnelinvestigation in helium flow at amach number of 15.4 .  the models weresquare-planform, double-wedge, shaft-mountedairfoils with leading- and trailing-edgeradii of 0, 1, 3, and 6 percent chord .in general, the tests indicate that bluntnesseffects on the model flutter characteristicsare stabilizing as the leading-edgeradius is increased from 0 todestabilizing with further increase inbluntness .  results of flutter calculations madeby using newtonian theory aerodynamicsand a combination of newtonian theory andpiston theory aerodynamics in conjunctionwith an uncoupled two-mode analysisare compared with experimental results .the piston-theory results accuratelypredicted flutter speeds for the models with
an experimental investigation has been made to indicate the validity ofusing methane-air combustion products as the test medium for aerodynamicheating and loading tests .  tests were conducted on a hemispherecylinderand on a bluff-afterbody model, both in methane-air combustionproducts and in air alone, and covered a range of mach numbers from 6 tothe data showed that the nondimensional heating-rate distributionalong a hemisphere-cylinder as obtained in combustion products was ingood agreement with that obtained in air, and the results were inreasonable agreement with theory .  the stagnation-point heating ratesin air and in combustion products over the hemisphere-cylinder agreedwithin 10 percent of the theoretical values .  the pressure distributionsaround a hemisphere-cylinder obtained from tests in combutionproducts were in good agreement with those obtained in air and couldbe predicted by newtonian flow theory .  the tests in combustionproducts of a bluff-afterbody model produced nondimensional heattransfercoefficients which were in fair agreement with results obtainedin air .
an experimental investigation was made of the pressures induced ona flat plate at a free-stream mach number of 1.39 by a supersonicrocket jet exhausting upstream and downstream .  measurements of thepressure distribution on a flat plate were made at zero angle ofattack for 11 different locations of the jet exhaust nozzle beneaththe wing .  measurements were made at ratios of rocket-exit totalpressure to free-stream static pressure from 6 to 60 and at a reynoldsnumber per foot of approximately 10 times 10 to the power of 6 .  therocket when exhausted upstream produced a strong shock that movedfurther upstream with increasing rocket-exit total-pressure ratio .positive incremental normal-force coefficients were obtained at all testpositions .  data at 11 test positions are tabulated for rocket-onand rocket-off pressure coefficients as well as for incremental pressurecoefficients for the 48 orifices of the flat plate for the range ofratio of rocket-exit total pressure to free-stream static pressureof the investigation .  changing the location of the model withrespect to the plate had a negligible effect when the rocket wasvaried in the chordwise direction, but the pressure coefficientswere reduced as the rocket was lowered away from the flat-plate wing .
an integral equation for obtaining the unsteady air forces on finitewings in subsonic compressible flow is presented .  this equationis applicable for any arbitrary time-dependent motion and can beutilized for flexible as well as rigid wings .  the approach involvesthe derivation of an integral equation relating the unknown pressurethe form of the equation is such that it should lend itself readily tomodern high-speed computers for obtaining pressure distributions .special cases of the integral equation are treated for two-dimensionalincompressible flow and are presented in an appendix .
  an investigation has been conductedin the langley 7- by 10-foot transonictunnel at low subsonic speeds to determinethe longitudinal aerodynamic characteristicsassociated with deflection of thenose section of a highly swept deltawing having an aspect ratio of 1.33 .  in orderto illustrate the effectiveness ofthis forward control, the longitudinal controlcharacteristics are also presentedfor the wing with upper-and lower-surfacesplit flaps located at the trailingedge .  comparison between the longitudinalaerodynamic characteristics of the wingutilizing the nose control and those ofthe wing utilizing the upper-surfacesplit flap located at the trailing edgeindicated similar control effectivenessfor high control deflections (15) andsimilar values of trimmed lift-drag ratiowith increasing lift coefficient .  useof the nose control, however, indicated alower value of trimmed angle of attackfor a given value of trimmed lift coefficientthan that realized from use ofthe upper-surface split flap .  furtherreductions in trimmed angle of attackfor a given value of trimmed lift coefficientmay be realized from deflectionof the lower-surface split flap at thewing trailing edge in combination withthe nose control and would be accompaniedby large reductions in lift-drag ratio .
  the tumbling motion of vehiclesentering planetary atmospheres isanalyzed .  a differential equationgoverning the tumbling motion, itsarrest, and the subsequent oscillatorymotion is obtained and identifiedas the equation for the fifth painlevetranscendant .  an approximateanalytical solution for the transcendantis derived .  comparisons withresults obtained from numericalintegration of the exact equations ofmotion indicate that the solution for theangle-of-attack history issufficiently accurate to be of practical use .
the design of structures to resist jet noise fatigue demands aknowledge of a wide range of subjects from pure acoustics at onehand to metal physics at the other . at the present time the variousaspects of the problem are not sufficiently well know quantitativelyfor a purely theoretical design study to be made . neverthelessa knowledge of the behaviour of typical forms of constructionin noise environments can be used with a limitedamount of theoretical work to indicate tne most efficient types ofstructure . this approach to the problem is adopted in thislecture as it seems to be the most promising one available at themoment . it must be emphasized, however, that although someprogress has been made in dicsovering the behaviour of astructure subjected to noise it is not possible to estimate the lifeof any component at the drawing board stage . some prototypestrain measurements and proof testing are therefore essential ifone is to prove the integrity of the design .     within the structural limits of single skin construction set inthis lecture the main conclusion to be reached is that no reasonableestimate of fatigue life can yet be made in the drawingboard stage of a structure . nevertheless, a study of the form ofbehaviour of typical structures has led to a theoretical simplificationof the problem of skin vibration . from this it has beenpossible to suggest an optimum deisgn for a skin stiffened bystringers . a suggestion for an optimum design of skin and ribfor control surfaces to minimise stresses at the rib-skin intersectionis put forward but no experience can check this yet .     the most resonable basis for the future estimation offatigue life of a component appears to be the /random/ s-ncurve and consierable effort should be made to obtain thenecessary test data .     the life expectation of a new design will be uncertain andsome proof testing is essential if the integrity of structure in highnoise levels (150 db) is to be guaranteed .
  the clamped plate problem inthe classical theory for the smalldeflection bending of flat platesis reduced to the solution by variationalmethods of two successive membraneproblems .  the first requires the leastsquare minimisation of the averagecurvature of the deflected surface whilethe second problem concerns theintegral of the gaussian curvature .  thereis a similar reduction for extensionalproblems where the boundary tractionsare specified .  the method is demonstrated bygiving three distinct solutions to theproblem of the clamped sector undera uniformly distributed load .  onesolution is of special interest becauseit is derived from a single membraneproblem .  numerical data are given .
  the theoretical estimation of the buckling strength of a cylinderloaded in axial compression is improved by the use of a morerepresentative deflected form for the buckled cylinder than haspreviously been used .  kempner's buckling strength for dead weightloading is reduced by 18 .  the presentation of the magnitude and distributionof the constraint system required to maintain the mode isnovel and instructive .
  control surface flutter of thewing torsion-control rotation type hasbeen investigated for an unswept wingwith an under-massbalanced, half span,outboard aileron .  thirteen pairs ofwings were tested, using ground launchedrocket driven vehicles, and a range ofvalues of aileron natural frequencywas covered .  the test results showedconsiderable scatter, but enabledupper and lower limits of a flutterboundary to be determined approximately .it was established that aileron fluttercould be eliminated on the modelstested provided the aileron frequencyexceeded the wing torsional frequencyby 20 per cent or more .  in thiscondition the models were also free fromsingle degree of freedom flutter
  plate problems involving free edges have been historicallydifficult to solve, particularly when two free edges are adjacent,resulting in a free corner .  the cantilevered square plate subjectedto a transverse loading is one such problem for which anexact solution has not been achieved .  in the present paper results obtained by various approximatemethods are presented for this problem for the case of a uniformloading .  solutions obtained by the authors using the techniqueof point matching and the rayleigh-ritz method are comparedwith previously published finite-difference and experimental resultsand with bernoulli-euler beam and plane-strain approaches .numerical results for deflections, slope components, bending andtwisting moments, and transverse distributed shears are presentedfor a relatively fine gridwork of points on the plate boundaryand within the interior .  the antielastic curvature is exhibited byall methods except beam theory .  all methods present the interestingconclusion that the free edge deflection is greater whenthe plate is treated as a plate rather than a beam .
  experimental results gathered in recent years for binarymixture mass transfer models are shown to yield consistent evidenceof discrepancies with analytic considerations .  specifically,measured recovery temperatures are appreciably higher than thosepredicted ,. while heat transfer coefficients are satisfactorily reproduced.  it is shown on the basis of both approximate and exactsolutions for plates and stagnation points that the discrepancies inprevious results are related to thermal diffusion effects, a majorinfluence being apparent in application of the surface boundarycondition for an adiabatic wall .  as a result, some reexamination isnecessary of past criteria for mass addition effects as they pertain tospecific injected media .  a prime example is the /equivalence/ ofhelium and air as coolants despite the heretofore suggested preferencefor low density injectants on a perfect gas basis .  ref. 16 .
  a circular cylinder with two-inchdiameter and with a porous wall fabricatedout of woven wire material wasaligned with its axis parallel to an airstream with approximately 100 ft secvelocity .  helium gas was injected intothe turbulent boundary layer throughthe cylinder walls at a uniform rate inthe range 1.55 x 10 to 1.08 x 10of the free stream mass velocity .  thelocal energy transfer along the cylinderwas measured at various values ofthe wall temperature level for thesituation that the energy flows from thecylinder to the boundary layer andvice versa .  the results showed clearlythat the wall temperature for zeroenergy transfer - the adiabatic wall temperature- was larger than the freestream temperature by up to about 40 f,although viscous dissipation effectsare negligible .  this temperature excessincreases with increasing injectionrate and is independent of reynoldsnumber .  an analysis in which the laminarsublayer is treated as couette flowwith helium injection and which includesthermal diffusion in this layer isformulated .  the results show appreciablethermal diffusion effects onadiabatic wall temperature, increasing itover its value for zero injectionby amounts of the same order of magnitudeas found by measurements .  thermaldiffusion however has negligible effectson the heat transfer coefficient .its effects on the concentration andtemperature distribution are discussedand are shown to produce appreciablemodifications in the latter .
  the distribution of deflection and bending moment in auniformly loaded rectangular plate having two adjacentedges clamped and the others either simply supported orfree, are obtained by a method of superposition .  numericalvalues are given for square plates and, in one case, theresults are compared with those obtained by anothermethod .
a simple method is given which is suitablefor the approximate analysis of certainboundary-value problems, including, forexample, the small deflections of clampedplates and the torsion of prismatic bars .the analysis is particularly simple and lendsitself well to the use of the digital computer .the method is applied here to four problems,the uniformly loaded, clamped square,and equilateral-triangle plates, and thetorsion of bars of square and hexagonal crosssection .  the results agree well withthe exact solutions, where these are known .
  the hovercraft is the first operational britishproject in the ground-effect machine field .although there has, for a number of years, beena tentative searching after the principlesunderlying such machines, it is only now that theirpossibilities as commercial transport andservice craft are beginning to be developed .  since the hovercraft is a new vehicle, the appearanceof the saunders-roe sr-n1, a mannedexperimental craft, excited considerable public attentionand there have been a number ofdescriptive articles in the press .  papers of a moretechnical type, on ground-effect machines,are now beginning to appear and it is to be expectedthat these will rapidly increase in number,especially since american interest in both the commercialand defence fields is expanding fast .  the authors of the present paper have, therefore,concentrated attention upon featuresabout which they had something personal to say, andwhich they consider to be of particularsignificance for assessing the possibility of thehovercraft becoming important in maritimetransport .  these features are ..-    thehovercraft as a fundamentally new      principle in the transport field .    the powering requirements and resistance      characteristics .    the likely operating costs of hovercraft      in comparison with other forms of maritime transport .in addition, relatively brief descriptions ofthe history and the current work being undertakenon the ground-effect machine and of the design,construction, and testing of the saunders-roesr-n1 are provided .  the final section discussesoutstanding problems and some futurepossibilities .
analysis of the influence various aerodynamic parameters have onthe performance of a simple peripheral jet system .  power weightratio, lift drag ratio, and effect of jet angles and thickness areeach considered .  structural requirements, optimum cushion pressure,and dynamic stability over waves are examined and then relatedto the economics of ground-effect machine operation .
  local heat-transfer coefficients and recovery factors are presentedfor separated and reattached turbulent flows as obtainedby a downward step in an otherwise flat surface in a two-dimensional,subsonic, air flow .  the region downstream of the step,the focus of this investigation, contained a region of separatedflow with reattachment at about five step heights downstream,followed by a section of reattached flow .  the salient feature ofthe results is the maximum in the local heat-transfer coefficientat the reattachment point, with values thereof diminishing in theseparated region and also in the reattached region, where theytend toward values characteristic of turbulent boundary-layerflow .  it is found that for most of the region the heat-transfercoefficient depends on the velocity to about the 0.8 power, thougha decreased dependence may exist in the separated region .  recoveryfactors have the characteristically low values associatedwith separated flows, and do not attain values typical of turbulentboundary-layer flows within the downstream lengths available.
  a simple method of calculatingthe pressure distribution in incompressibleflow on two-dimensional aerofoilsof arbitrary section at moderate distancesfrom the ground is developed .comparisons with an /exact/ potentialflow solution, and with measurementson a 10 thick aerofoil of rae.101section, provide a satisfactoryverification of the adequacy of the method ,.but it is shown that it is necessaryto take account of the boundary layeron the aerofoil in the calculations .
  parallel flow of an electrically conducting viscousincompressible fluid in a rectangular duct withtransverse magnetic field is considered .  the wallsof the duct which are parallel and perpendicularto the imposed magnetic field are taken to benonconducting and perfectly conducting, respectively .assuming the fluid to be at rest at the initialmoment, exact solutions for the velocity and magneticfield components are obtained in the form ofconvolution integrals taking the longitudinal pressuregradient as an arbitrary given function of time .later, taking a step function for the pressure gradient,these expressions are integrated .  for this case,the effect of the strength of the imposed magneticfield on the development behavior of the flow isstudied .  it is found that except for very large magneticfields, the flows are over damped .
  as a continuation of part 1 (j. phys. soc. japan 8 (1953) 662), thesecond approximation for the propagation and structure of a blastwave is now discussed .  the solution for r=1.4 is obtained by anumerical method, using the results of the first approximation obtainedin part 1 .  by use of this solution, u-r curves, distance-time curvesand the changing feature of distributions of velocity, pressure anddensity behind the shock front are discussed .  further, the approximate solution of the equation is discussed bya refinement of the wkb method due to imai .
results are presented of an investigation to determine the effect ofboundary-layer displacement and leading-edge bluntness on surfaces inhypersonic flow . the presence of the boundary layer and the bluntleading edge induce pressure gradients which in turn affect the skinfriction and heat transfer to the surface . methods for predicting these phenomena on two-dimensional surfaces are given and a brief review ofrecent three-dimensional results is presented .
the equations of motion for the flow of an ideal dissociating gasthrough a nearly conical nozzle have been solved numerically, assuminga simple equation for the rate of dissociation, and a number ofdifferent values of the rate constant . the results of thesecalculations suggest that deviations from dissociation equilibrium willoccur in the nozzle if the rate constant lies within a very wide rangeof values . they also suggest that once such a deviation has begun thegas will very rapidly/freeze/, so that the dissociation fraction willremain almost constant if the flow is expanded further, or even if itpasses through a constant area test section . an approximate methodof solution, making use of this property of sudden/freezing/of the flow, has been developed and applied to the problem of estimating thedeviations from equilibrium under a wide range of conditions . if allthe assumptions made in this report are accepted, then lack ofdissociation equilibrium may be expected in the working sections ofhypersonic wind tunnels and hypersonic shock tubes .it is shown, however, that the flow behind a normal shock wave in such a wind tunnel will not be greatly affected by any freezing that may takeplace in the nozzle upstream of the shock wave . even so, the stand-offdistance of a shock wave in front of a blunt model may be quitesensitive to deviations from equilibrium .
  fringe shifts on interferograms of flows at m=2.45about variously truncated 15 (half-angle) conecylinders in free flight in a pressurized range have beenexamined for similarity of the flow fields, occurrence ofscale effects, and convergence to conical flow .  it wasfound that flows over similar objects with equal tipreynolds numbers were similar and that convergenceto conical flow occurred before the disturbance at thetip had been reflected the second time alongcharacteristics to the body .  density distributions have beendetermined, and a number of comparisons havebeen made with theoretical predictions .
with the development of high-speed aircraft and missiles, vibrationof panels has become a problem of practical significance .  manyof the failures of the early german rockets after attaining supersonicspeed have been attributed to the development of such paneloscillations .  it appears thisphenomenon is not of much concern in the subsonicspeed range., however, in the supersonic speed range panels may developoscillations which cause instability of the structure .  this effect hasbeen exhibited experimentally under controlled laboratory conditionsmotion is limited and buckling may not be a serious design problem .in these cases panel flutter is still of importance because of itseffect on the fatigue life and the allowable stresses for design ofthe panel material .the oscillations of panels may be due either to aerodynamic forceinduced by the motion of the panel, or to aerodynamic noise, orbuffeting (irregular motion induced by turbulence in the flow) .the interaction between aerodynamic forces and panel motions, usuallyreferred to as /panel flutter,/ has been investigated by several workersin recent years .  since the problem is too complex to be dealt within its entirety, simplifying assumptions have been made in theseinvestigations .  the literature is marked by a certain degree of controversyover the validity of these assumptions and the applicability ofthe results obtained .  a brief review of the literature with referenceto several of the approximations made and the results obtained follows .
  a general method is described wherebyan approximation of any desired degreeof accuracy to the stream functions fortwo types of variable shear flows pastfinite cylinders can be obtained .  the twoshear distributions in the free stream canbe approximated to the linear sheardistribution and the shear present in anunretarded incompressible boundary layerrespectively .  in every case the stagnationstreamline is displaced from the positionopposite the line of symmetry of thecylinder, and general expressions areobtained for this displacement .  the line ofsymmetry may be in the direction ofor perpendicular to the direction of flow .the two particular examples cited arethose of a general elliptic cylinder andcylinders of the form where and being the polarcoordinates, and 2p the maximum widthof the cylinder .
  after a brief review of methods of calculating the flowfields produced by disturbances in rotational basic flows,the author points out a fundamental difficulty in thetreated as a perturbation of the disturbance field thatwould occur if the basic flow were uniform) ..  slow attenuationof the secondary-flow disturbance with distancefrom the obstacle .  the author conjectured (same j. 1the trouble was caused by nonuniform validity of theapproximation sequence in the region far from the obstacle.  the analogy with /stokes' and whitehead'sparadoxes/ is mentioned, and a solution analogous tooseen's is suggested, one in which disturbances, but notthe shear, are assumed to be small .  in this paper, such asolution is found, and is shown to overlap with the smallshear,secondary-flow solution .  the basic flow is a parallel,steady, inviscid, two-dimensional shear flow .  the /fundamentalsolution/ due to a weak source is sought .  the method of fourier transforms is used .  simple solutionsare found for a uniformly sheared basic flow (wherethe result coincides with the secondary-flow solution) andfor an exponential basic-flow profile .  in the general caseit is assumed that the parallel basic flow becomes uniformat, where the x-axis lies in the flow direction .the character of the solution is determined by studyingits hankel transform, especially for the class of flowswhere the total variation of the basic stream speed v(y)is small .  an interpretation in terms of images, due tom. b. glauert, is given, and finally the relationship of thepresent work to theories of the displacement of thestagnation streamline (displacement effect of pitottubes) is discussed .
  a summary of exact solutions of thelaminar-boundary-layer equationsfor wedge-type flow, useful in estimatingheat transfer to such arbitrarilyshaped bodies as turbine blades,is presented .  the solutions are determinedfor small mach numbers anda prandtl number at the wall of 0.7 ,.ranges of mainstream pressure gradientsand rates of coolant flow througha porous wall are considered for thefollowing cases ..  (1) small temperaturechanges in the boundary layeralong a constant- and along a variabletemperaturewall, and (2) largetemperature changes in the boundary layeralong a constant-temperature wall .  dimensionless forms of heat-transferand friction parameters andboundary-layer thicknesses are tabulated .the results indicate that coolantemission and increased stream-to-walltemperature ratios diminishedthe friction and heat transfer for aconstant wall temperature .  for avariable wall temperature with smalltemperature differences in the boundarylayer, the friction was unaffected,but the heat transfer was greatlyincreased for increased wall-temperaturegradient .  heat-transfer resultsin the literature reveal that transpirationcooling is much more effectivefor prandtl numbers of the order of 5.0 than for 0.7 .
  the effect of a strong, negativepressure gradient upon the localrate of heat transfer through a laminarboundary layer on the isothermalsurface of an electrically heated,cylindrical body of revolution with ahemispherical nose was determined fromwind-tunnel tests at a mach numberof 1.97 .  the investigation indicatedthat the local heat-transfer parameter,based on flow conditionsjust outside the boundary layer,decreased from a value of 0.65 0.10 atthe stagnation point of the hemisphereto a value  of 0.43 0.05 at thejunction with the cylindricalafterbody .  because measurements of thestatic pressure distribution overthe hemisphere indicated that the localflow pattern tended to becomestationary as the free-stream mach numberwas increased to 3.8, this distributionof heat-transfer parameter isbelieved representative of allmach numbers greater than 1.97 and oftemperatures less than that of dissociation.  the local heat-transferparameter was independent of reynoldsnumber based on body diameter in therange from 0.6x10 to 2.3x10 .  the measured distribution ofheat-transfer parameter agreed withintheoretical distribution calculated withforeknowledge only of the pressuredistribution about the body .  thismethod, applicable to any body ofrevolution with an isothermal surface,combines the mangler transformation,stewartson transformation, and thermalsolutions to the falkner-skan wedge-flowproblem, and thus evaluates theheat-transfer rate in axisymmetriccompressible flow in terms of the knownheat-transfer rate in an approximatelyequivalent two-dimensional incompressibleflow .  measurements of recovery-temperaturedistributions at mach numbersof 1.97 and 3.04 yielded local recoveryfactors having an average valueof 0.823 0.012 on the hemisphere whichincreased abruptly at the shoulderto an average value of 0.840 0.012 onthe cylindrical afterbody .  thisresult suggests that the usual representationof the laminar recoveryfactor as the square root of the prandtlnumber is conservative in thepresence of a strong, accelerating pressure gradient .
  by the distortion of coordinates, it is shown that, in the caseof supersonic viscous flow past a flat plate, the boundary-layerand simple wave theories can be combined to give a completerepresentation of the velocity and pressure fields .  consistentfirst-order solutions are considered .  an expression for the inducedpressure on the plate, correct to the second order, is obtained.  at high mach numbers the important parameter satisfiesthe hypersonic similarity law ,. and for arbitrary mach andreynolds numbers and for different gases, the theoretical curvecorrelates closely the experimental data .  asymptotic shockcurve and skin-friction coefficient are also deduced, but the experimentalverifications are yet to be made .
the incompressible laminar boundary layeron a semi-infinite flat plate is considered,when the main stream has uniformshear .  a solution is obtained forthe first two terms of an asymptotic solutionfor small viscosity .  it is shown thatone of the principal effects of free-streamvorticity is to introduce a modifiedpressure field outside the boundary-layer region .
plane and axisymmetric hypersonic gas flows are considered with shockwaves of very great intensity that have a power-law form .  on the basisof an investigation of the portions of the flow with high entropy adjoiningthe surface of the body (not necessarily for a shock wave of thegiven form) it is shown that the use in the flow problem of the exactsolution for the corresponding unsteady self-similar gas motion requiresa supplementary refinement of the thickness of the high entropy layer .a method is shown for introducing such a correction and constructing theshape of the body contour, on which is to be applied the pressure distributionobtained on the basis of the theory of small disturbances .
an analytical method for the determination of effect of shock curvatureon heat transfer in the region of the nose has been developed . it isshown that for practical body shape the viscous terms in the navierstokesequations are not important in the region of the flow far fromthe wall, and the displacement thickness can be neglected . then theflow can be approximately represented by an inviscid-flow solutionhaving as boundary conditions the body shape, which is not affected bythe reynolds number, and by a boundary-layer type of flow near thewall, having appropriate boundary conditions . this approach permits usto determine the heat transfer in the region of the nose even at verylow reynolds numbers .experimental results are presented . the experimental results agreewith the values given by the analysis .
cheng, h.k.hypersonic flow at low reynolds number is studied utilizing the shocklayerconcept . the present formulation takes into account the salientfeatures of the transport processes within the shock layer in a mannerconsistent with the shock-layer approximation . the rankine-hugoniotshock relations are modified to include contributions due to heatconduction and viscous effects immediately behind the shock .the specific problem of an axisymmetric stagnation region is treated .the flow regimes for this problem can be classified according to whether or not the transport effects are important immediately behind theshock . in one regime where the ordinary rankine-hugoniot relations hold across the shock, the vorticity-interaction theory based on theboundary-layer approximation is shown to be sufficient . in the otherregime where the rankine-hugoniot relations have to be modified but thecontinuum-flow model applies, an approximate, an analytical solution isobtained . this solution reveals a substantial reduction of thetemperature behind the shock and of the shock stand-off distance in thepresence of strong surface cooling .the present study is intended to provide a knowledge to bridge the gapbetween the free-molecule flow regime and that of the boundary layer via the continuum theory . in this respect, the solution obtained appearsto be satisfactory in that it yields the correct free-molecule limitsfor the skin friction and surface-heat transfer rate .
  measurements of stagnation point heat transfer are presentedin the reynolds number range between the free molecular flowand the range where modified boundary layer theory still applies .the measurements are compared with the analytical methodsset forth by ferri, zakkay, and ting .  the results show smoothtransition between the two regions and indicate that the predictedreynolds number for which the modified boundary layertheory can be used is in agreement with experiments .  in thelower range of reynolds number the ratio of decreasesand reaches a value of 1 at a reynolds number of 40 .
the subsonic potential flow of a compressible fluid past a spherein an infinite medium was first determined by rayleigh .  subsequently,caplan and tamada extended the solution to include the fourth powerof the mach number .  to the author's knowledge, no solution forsubsonic flow past a sphere in a finite medium has been published .  itis the purpose of this note to present a solution for subsonicpotential flow past a sphere inside a circular cylindrical duct .
a discussion of differences arising between experimental and analyticalresults, in particular those due to inconsistencies introduced in thepresentation of data and the way the comparison is made .
results are given of pressure measurements and boundary-layer traverseson a two-dimensional wing with 10 per cent rae 101 section at reynoldsnumbers of 1.6x10 and 3.2x10 . these results which have been integratedto give lift, drag and aerodynamic-centre characteristics, are used tocheck some calculation methods for the growth of the turbulent boundarylayer and for the effect of a known boundary layer on the pressuredistribution .it is concluded that the calculation of the boundary layer still needs alittle refinement before it is accurate enough to predict viscosityeffects on pressure distribution, lift, drag and aerodynamic center,.but that these effects can be calculated if the actual boundary-layercharacteristics are known .
the problems of solid blockage, wake blockage, lift effect, and theinfluence of boundary constraint at high mach number are considered indetail . corrections are given for various open and closed tunnels,rectangular, circular and octagonal, and different speeds, two andthree dimensional flows, with several aerofoils and wings . otherinterferences include the wall boundary layer, gradient of staticpressure and problems with the working fluid used .
  an investigation was conducted in the n. a. c. a.full-scale wind tunnel on a small parasol monoplaneequipped with three different split trailing-edge wingflaps .  the object of the investigation was to determineand correlate data on the characteristics of the airplaneand flaps as affected by variation in flap chord, flapdeflection, and flap location along the wing chord .  thechords of the flaps were 10, 20, and 30 percent of thewing chord and each flap was tested at deflections from 0to 75 when located successively at 68, 80, and 88.8percent of the wing chord aft of the leading edge .  theinvestigation included force tests, pressure-distributiontests, and downwash surveys .  the results give the lift,the drag, and the pitching-moment characteristics of theairplane, the flap forces and moments, the pressuredistribution over the flaps and wing at one section,and the downwash characteristics of the flap and wingcombinations .  an increase in flap chord or distance of the flap fromthe leading edge of the wing increased the lift of the airplanebut had an adverse effect on the wing pitchingmoment .  the ld ratio of the airplane decreased withincrease in flap deflection or flap chord .  flap normalforcecoefficients were primarily a function of flap deflectionand were relatively independent of flap chord, hingeaxislocation, and airplane attitude .  the location ofthe flap center of pressure in percentage of flap chord aft ofthe hinge axis remained practically constant irrespectiveof airplane attitude and of flap deflection, chord, orlocation .  flap hinge-moment coefficients varied with apower of flap chord greater than the square so that withregard to hinge moments narrow flaps were the mostefficient in producing a given increase in lift .  split trailing-edge flaps materially affected the magnitudeand distribution of pressures over the entire wingprofile .  at low angles of attack the predominant effectof the flaps was to increase positively the lower-surfacepressures ,. at high angles of attack, to increase negativelythe upper-surface pressures .  downwash surveys indicatedthat horizontal tail planes located above the wingchord line would be more effective than those below thechord in counteracting the increased diving moment ofthe airplane with flaps deflected .
  the camber and twist distributionsneeded to produce a constant spanwise-distribution and certain linearchordwise load distributions havebeen calculated by linearised supersonictheory at for a set of 34thin sweptback wings .  the wing planformscover a range of aspect ratiosfrom 2.0 to 3.5 and leading-edge sweepangles from 55 to 70 .  both leadingand trailing edges are subsonic at thedesign mach number, and the slendernessparameter is between 0.19 and 0.40 .  the lift-dependent vortex and wavedrags associated with these loadingshave also been calculated, and appear notto be excessive in almost all thecases considered .
extensive tables are given of pressure coefficients measured at reynolds numbers from 1.3x10 to 3.9x10 on two half-models of identical planformwith 5( rae 101 and 9( rae 101 streamwise sections . the planform ofaspect ratio 3.899 has a straight trailing edge with 60degree of sweepback,constant chord over most of the span and a parabolic outer portionof the leading edge curving to a pointed tip . the overall wing characteristicsare obtained from integrated normal pressures and arecompared with lifting-surface theory .the low-speed experimental pressure distributions and surface oil-flowpatterns are analysed and discussed in relation to the onset ofseparation and the distinct vortex flows that develop at highincidence . series of contrasting upper-surface isobars illustrate somefeatures of the different stalling processes of the two wings . thedirect influence of the main vortex on local surface pressures isassessed in general terms . a fuller appraisal of secondary surface flow is obtained from the oil patterns, observations in water andmeasurements of high suction near the trailing edge .studies of the extent of leading-edge stall and location of part-spanvortices, in particular two simultaneous leading-edge vortices on thethinner wing, follow from further analysis of local surface pressures .after a detailed discussion of the effect of reynolds number and thedistinct types of separated flow, a few results with leading-edgeroughness are considered in relation to scale effect on separation andthe extensive influence of part-span roughness .
the methods of the classical aerofoil theory are used to derive ageneral theory for wings of any given planform . the load over thewhole surface of a given wing can be calculated at a given subcriticalmach number, and the procedure is as simple and rapid as that of theclassical aerofoil theory . the calculated results are confirmed byexperiments .
this report contains some fairly simple and economic methods forcalculating the load distribution on wings of any plan form based onthe conceptions of lifting surface theory . the computer work requiredis only a small fraction of that of existing methods with comparableaccuracy . this is achieved by a very careful choice of the positionsof pivotal points, by plotting once for all those parts of the downwashintegral which occur frequently and by a consequent application ofapproximate integration methods similar to those devised by the authorfor lifting line problems .the basis of the method is to calculate the local lift and pitchingmoment at a number of chordwise sections from a set of linear equationssatisfying the downwash conditions at two pivotal points in eachsection . interpolation functions of trigonometrical form are used forspanwise integration both in setting up the downwash equations and ingetting the resultant forces on the wing from the local forces . thepreliminary chordwise integrations for the downwash are predigested ina series of charts/figs.1-6/,.it is these which make the method apractical computing proposition .the theory is outlined in sections 2-5,.section 6 deals with thesolution of the linear equation and section 7 with the resultant forceson the wing . some examples are worked out in section 8 to compare withother methods,. one solution is given in full detail in tables 8-30 as a guide for computers . appendices i-vi discuss more carefully somesalient points of the mathematical theory, and appendix vii is intendedto instruct the computer how to carry out the steps of the calculation .
  existing methods of calculatingthe effect of endplates on straightwings are modified so as to apply toswept wings .  the changes in overalllift and drag, and also the spanwisedistribution of the additional load,can be calculated .  the theoretical results arecompared with experimental resultsobtained on swept wings, includingnew measurements of lift, drag andpitching moment, made on an untapered  the method of calculation is alsoextended to cover the effect ofthe tip vortex which is formed on wingswithout endplates .
  this report contains the resultsof pressure measurements on threeand aspect ratio 5, over anincidence range up to 10 .  chordwiseand spanwise lift distributionsare given, mostly near the centrewhere, on two of the wings, modificationshad been made to the sectionshape .  it was found that alteringthe thickness distribution in thecentre did not affect the loading butthat approximately straight isobarscould be obtained at values ofbelow about 0.1 .  by the incorporationof twist and camber in the centralpart the distortion of the liftdistribution in the centre could beavoided at one particular incidence,and thus the same chordwisedistribution obtained over most of the span .  twist and camber alone do not improvethe isobar pattern andtherefore a thickness modification would beneeded to give the desiredlift distribution and isobar pattern at oneparticular incidence .  the results of experimental investigationsof the boundary layerand of the effect of aspect ratio will be givenin a later report .
linearized, compressible-flow analysis is applied to the study ofquasi-conical supersonic wing theory . single-integral equations arederived which relate either the loading to the shape of a liftingsurface or the thickness of a symmetrical wing to the pressure distributionfor triangular wings with subsonic leading edges . the forms ofthese equations and their inversions are simplified through the introductionof the finite part and the generalized principal part of anintegral .applications of the theory, in the lifting case, include previouslyknown results . in the nonlifting case, it is shown that for a specified pressure distribution the theory does not always predict a uniquethickness distribution . this is demonstrated for a triangular plan form having a constant pressure gradient in the stream direction .
the formulas of subsonic and supersonic wing theory for source, doublet, and vortex distributions are reviewed, and a systematic presentation is provided which relates these distributions to the pressure and to thevertical induced velocity in the plane of the wing . it is shown thatcare must be used in treating the singularities involved in the analysis and that the order of integration is not always reversible . conceptssuggested by the irreversibility of order of integration are shown to be useful in the inversion of singular integral equations when operational techniques are used . a number of examples are given to illustrate themethods presented, attention being directed to supersonic flightspeeds .
a generalised conical flow theory is used to deduce an integral equation relating the velocity potential on a delta wing/with subsonic leadingedges/to the given downwash distribution over the wing . the completesolution of this integral equation is derived . this complete solutionis composed of two parts, one being symmetric and the other antisymmetricwith respect to the spanwise co-ordinate,. each partrepresents a velocity potential . for example, if y is the spanwiseco-ordinate and x is measured in the free stream direction, then adownwash of the form w-a ux/y/is symmetric and will give rise to asymmetric potential, whereas w-a ux/y/sgn y is anti-symmetric and givesrise to an anti-symmetric potential . the velocity potentials of suchflows are given in the form of tables for all downwashes up to andincluding homogenous cubics in the spanwise and streamwiseco-ordinates . table iii gives similar formulae in the limiting casewere used over a cycle of the tumbling motion . the analytical expressionwas in good agreement with numerical solutions of the complete nonlinearequations of motion .
in an attempt to avoid flow separation at the leading edge of a thindelta wing with subsonic leading edges, an attachment line is prescribed there . this is done by requiring the load, as predicted by attachedflow theory, to vanish along the leading edge at the design liftcoefficient . for sonic speed, a complete account of this flow is givenin terms of slender wing theory and the load distributions corresponding to arbitrary conical camber are calculated . for supersonic speedsload distributions arising in the slender wing theory are considered and the corresponding conical camber distributions are found by linearizedtheory . the lift-dependent drag for a given lift is then minimized with respect to the coefficients of a linear combination of these load distributions. it is found that the lift-dependent drag factor for theseconically cambered wings approaches the value it takes for the attachedflow/in which leading edge suction occurs/past the uncambered wing atthe same mach number, as more terms are included in the linear combination. however, when the leading edge is almost sonic an appreciablereduction is predicted . the corresponding load distributions and wingshapes are calculated and drawn . the optimum shapes for a fixed numberof terms resemble flat plates drooped downwards near their edges, sothat the localised leading edge suction is replaced by a distributedforce on a forward-facing surface, producing an effect of similarmagnitude .
the present paper contains a set of tables of complete ellipticintegrals computed and collected especially for applications to certaindynamical problems .the tabulated functions are four in number and are denoted byf/a/, g/a/, e/a/, and/a,b/respectively . the definitions of thesefunctions and their connections with the functions of legendre will bediscussed in the following .
  results of flutter tests onsome simple all-movable-control-typemodels are given .  one set of models,which had a square planform withdouble-wedge airfoils with fourdifferent values of leading- and trailingedgeradii from 0 to 6 percent chordand airfoil thicknesses of 9, 11,at mach numbers from 0.7 to 6.86 .the bending-to-torsion frequencyratio was about 0.33 .  the other set ofmodels, which had a tapered planformwith single-wedge and double-wedgeairfoils with thicknesses of 3, 6, 9,and 12 percent chord, was testedat mach numbers from 0.7 to 3.98 anda frequency ratio of about 0.42 .  the tests indicate that, in general,increasing thickness has adestabilizing effect at the higher machnumbers but is stabilizing atsubsonic and transonic mach numbers .double-wedge airfoils are moreprone to flutter than single-wedgeairfoils at comparable stiffnesslevels .  increasing airfoil bluntnesshas a stabilizing effect on theflutter boundary at supersonic speedsbut has a negligible effect atsubsonic speeds .  however, increasingbluntness may also lead to divergenceat supersonic speeds .  results of calculations usingsecond-order piston-theory aerodynamicsin conjunction with a coupled-modeanalysis and an uncoupled-mode analysisare compared with the experimentalresults for the sharp-edge airfoils atsupersonic speeds .  the uncoupled-modeanalysis more accurately predictedthe flutter characteristics of thetapered-planform models, whereas thecoupled-mode analysis was somewhatbetter for the square-planform models .for both the uncoupled- and coupled-modeanalyses, agreement with theexperimental results improved withincreasing mach number .  in general,both methods of analysis gave unconservativeresults with respect to theexperimental flutter boundaries .
  results of hypersonic fluttertests on some simple models are presented.  the models had rectangularplan forms of panel aspect ratio 1.0,no sweepback, and bending-to-torsionfrequency ratios of about .  twoairfoil sections were included in thetests ,. double wedges of 5-, 10-,and 15-percent thickness and flat plateswith straight, parallel sidesand beveled leading and trailing edges .the models were supported by acantilevered shaft .  the double-wedge wings were testedin helium at a mach number of 7.2 .an effect of airfoil thickness on flutterspeed was found, thicker wingsrequiring more stiffness to avoid flutter .a few tests in air at a machnumber of 6.9 showed the same thicknesseffect and also indicated thattests in helium would predict conservativeflutter boundaries in air .the data in air and helium seemed to becorrelated by piston-theory calculations.  piston-theory calculationsagreed well with experiment forthe thinner models but began to deviateas the thickness parameterapproached and exceeded 1.0 .  a few tests on flat-plate modelswith various elastic-axis locationswere made .  piston-theory calculationswould not satisfactorily predictthe flutter of these models, probablybecause of their blunt leadingedges .
a simple formula is given for the pressure distribution on anoscillating airfoil in two-dimensional flow at high mach number . theformula is expected to be reasonably accurate if the pressure on thesurface remains within the range 0.2 to 3.5 times the mainstreampressure . to illustrate the application of the formula, some resultsfor symmetrical airfoils performing pitching oscillations are obtainedand compared with results obtained from existing theories in the case of high mach number .
closed-form expressions and tables composed from these expressions arepresented for complete and partial conic and spheric bodies at combinedangles of attack and sideslip in newtonian flow . aerodynamiccoefficients of these bodies are tabulated for various body segmentsover a range of angles of attack from 1degree to 85degree and angles ofsideslip from 0degree to 15degree .some comparisons between newtonian predictions and hypersonicexperimental aerodynamic characteristics were made for conic bodieshaving various surface slopes, nose bluntnesses, and body cross sections to indicate the range of validity of the theory . in general, thetheory is shown to agree quite well with experimental results forsharp-nose complete cones and for configurations having large bluntednoses and steep surface slopes . however, agreement between theory andexperiment generally is poor for the more slender, slightly bluntedcomplete or half conic bodies and also for sharp-nose half conic bodieswhere real-flow phenomena such as forebody interference, viscous forces, leeward surface contributions, or leading-edge pressure reductions mayhave significant effect . the agreement between theory and experimentfor the bodies considered can be improved by using the stagnation pressurecoefficient behind a normal shock rather than 2 as the newtoniancoefficient, although for the sharp-nose half conic bodies there is notheoretical justification for this modification .
  a program to investigate the aerodynamic heat transfer of anonisothermal hemisphere-cylinder has been conducted in thelangley 11-inch hypersonic tunnel at a mach number of 6.8and a reynolds number from approximately 0.14x10 toexperimental heat-transfer coefficients were slightly less over thewhole body than those predicted by the theory of stine andwanlass (naca technical note 3344) for an isothermalsurface .  for stations within 45 of the stagnation point theheat-transfer coefficients could be correlated by a single relationbetween local stanton number and local reynolds number .  pitot pressure profiles taken at a mach number of 6.8 on ahemisphere-cylinder have verified that the local mach number orvelocity outside the boundary layer required in the theories maybe computed from the surface pressures by using isentropic flowrelations and conditions immediately behind a normal shock .the experimental pressure distribution at a mach number ofvelocity gradients calculated at the stagnation point by usingthe modified newtonian theory vary with mach number andare in good agreement with those obtained from measured pressuresfor mach numbers from 1.2 to 6.8 .  at the stagnation point the theory of sibulkin, in which thediameter and conditions behind the normal shock were used,was in good agreement with the experiment when the velocitygradient at the stagnation point appropriate to the free-streammach number was used .
  the shape and nature of theflow over a spiked-nose hemispherecylinderwas studied in detailat a nominal mach number of 6.8 and in areynolds number range (based ondiameter and stream conditions ahead ofthe model) of 0.12 x 10 to 1.5 x 10 .schlieren photographs showedthe effect of varying the spike lengthand reynolds number upon the shapeof the separated boundary and upon thelocation of transition .  the heattransfer and pressure distribution overthe body were then correlatedwith the location of the start ofseparation, the location of reattachment,and the location of the start oftransition .
a procedure is presented whereby the composition, thermodynamicproperties, and transport properties of the dissociated combustionproducts of a fuel consisting of a mixed hydrocarbon compound burned inair may be calculated . equations and procedures for determining supersonicnozzle ordinates and flow properties for the dissociated combustionproducts are presented in an appendix . results are presentedfor the respective hydrocarbon fuels, methane and ethylene, at theequivalence ratios of 1.0, 0.9, 0.8, and 0.7 for pressures varyingbetween 10 and 8 x 10 atmospheres and temperatures from 200degree k to
an investigation at a free-stream mach number of 2.02 was made todetermine the effects of a propulsive jet on a wing surface located inthe vicinity of a choked convergent nozzle . static-pressure surveyswere made on a flat surface that was located in the vicinity of thepropulsive jet . the nozzle was operated over a range of exit pressureratios at different fixed vertical distances from the flat surface .within the scope of this investigation, it was found that shock waves,formed in the external flow because of the presence of the propulsivejet, impinged on the flat surface and greatly altered the pressure distribution. an integration of this pressure distribution, with thelocation of the propulsive jet exit varied from 1.450 propulsive-jetexit diameters to 3.392 propulsive-jet exit diameters below the wing,resulted in an incremental lift for all jet locations that was equal tothe gross thrust at an exit pressure ratio of 2.86 .this incremental lift increased with increase in exit pressure ratio,but not so rapidly as the thrust increased, and was approximatelyconstant at any given exit pressure ratio .
an investigation at a free-stream mach number of 1.39 utilizing ablowdown-type tunnel was made to determine the effects of a propulsivejet on a zero angle-of-attack wing surface located in the vicinity ofboth a choked convergent nozzle and a convergent-divergent nozzle .staticpressure surveys were made on a flat surface that was located inthe vicinity of the propulsive jet . the nozzles were operated over avaried range of both exit static- and total-pressure ratios at differentwithin the scope of this investigation, it was found that shock waves,formed in the external flow because of the presence of the jet exhaust,impinged on the flat surface and greatly altered the pressure distribution. an integration of this pressure distribution for the chokedconvergent nozzle, with the location of the propulsive-jet exit variedfrom 1.747 jet-exit diameters to 4.981 jet-exit diameters below the wing surface, resulted in a positive incremental normal force on the wing at all positions .
as a continuation of previous research at mach numbers of 2.02 and 1.39, an experimental investigation was made of the pressures induced on aflat plate by a propulsive jet exhausting from sonic and supersonicnozzles at a free-stream mach number of 1.80 . measurements of thepressure distribution on a flat-plate wing were made at zero angle ofattack for four different locations of the jet exhaust nozzle beneaththe wing . both a choked convergent nozzle and a convergent-divergentnozzle on the nacelle were used . the nozzles were operated at nacelleexittotal-pressure ratios from 2 to 16 and the reynolds number per foot was approximately 13 x 10 .two distinct shock waves impinged on the wing surface and greatlyaltered the pressure distribution at all nozzle positions . positiveincremental normal force resulted on the wing at all positions . comparisonsare presented for two free-stream mach numbers .
an investigation at a free-stream mach number of 1.80 in a blowdown type tunnel was made to study the effect on the pressure distribution of azero angle of attack wing surface when certain exhaust parameters of ahot turbojet engine are varied . static-pressure surveys were made on awing surface that was located in the vicinity of a small-scale propulsivejet . this propulsive jet was operated with four types of jetexhausts . these jet exhausts were a hot jet /hydrogen burned in air/, a cold air jet, a cold helium jet, and a jet composed of a mixture of two cold gases /hydrogen and carbon dioxide/ . the hot jet, because of itshigh exhaust temperature /3,300degreer/ and because combustion wasperformed in air, was believed reasonably able to simulate the exhaustparameters of an actual afterburning turbojet engine . the cold jetsused were selected in order that the effects of a variation in the exhaustparameters of jet-exit static-pressure ratio, ratio of specificheats, density, and velocity, could be obtained by comparing each coldjet with the hot jet or with another cold jet . the tests were made over a range of jet-exit staticpressure ratios from 1 to 9 with values ofthe ratio of specific heats of 1.27, 1.40, and 1.66 and at variations in density and velocity of the order of approximately 8 and 3 times,respectively .within the scope of this investigation, it was found that jet-exitstatic-pressure ratio and the ratio of specific heats affected thepressure distribution on the wing associated with jet interference while a variation in exit velocity and density did not . the jet-exitstaticpressure ratio affected the wing pressure distribution in a majorway while the ratio of specific heats had only a minor effect . theaddition of temperature in the propulsive jet exhaust at a jet-exitstaticpressure ratio of 4 had little or no effect on the pressure distributionassociated with jet interference on the wing .
an investigation at a reynolds number per foot of 14.4 x 10 was made todetermine the pressure loads produced on a flat-plate wing by rocketjets exhausting in a spanwise direction beneath the wing and perpendicularto a free-stream flow of mach number 2.0 . the ranges of thevariables involved were /1/ nozzle types - one sonic /jet mach number oftwo-dimensional supersonic /jet mach number of 1.71/,. /2/ verticalnozzle positions beneath the wing of 4, 8, and 12 nozzle-throatdiameters,. and /3/ ratios of rocket-chamber total pressure to freestreamstatic pressure from 0 to 130 .the incremental normal force due to jet interference on the wing variedfrom one to two times the rocket thrust and generally decreased as thepressure ratio increased . the chordwise coordinate of the incrementalnormal-forcecenter of pressure remained upstream of the nozzle centerline for the nozzle positions and pressure ratios of the investigation . the chordwise coordinate approached zero as the jet vertical distancebeneath the wing increased . in the spanwise direction there was littlechange due to varying rocket-jet position and pressure ratio . someboundary-layer flow separation on the wing was observed for the rocketjets close to the wing and at the higher pressure ratios . the magnitude of the chordwise and spanwise pressure distributions due to jet interferencewas greatest for rocket jets close to the wing and decreased asthe jet was displaced farther from the wing .the design procedure for the rockets used is given in the appendix .
this paper is a preliminary and brief account of some research currently being conducted to determine the jet effects on adjacent surfaces fromthe firing of rocket jets . measurements of jet-effect pressures on aflat plate as well as shadowgraphs are presented that were obtained when a rocket jet at a mach number of 3 was exhausted downstream and upstreaminto free-stream flow at a mach number of 2 located from 2 to 4.7 rocket-jet-exit diameters from the plate . the jet effects on the flatplate with the rocket jet exhausting downstream are of the same order of magnitude as those previously obtained from sonic exits with a totalpressure 10 times lower . a maximum pressure coefficient on the plate ofrocket-jet-exit diameters below the plate, and an integration of themeasured jet-effect pressures at this position resulted in a normalforce on the plate equal to 2.3 times the thrust output of the rocketjet .
unsteady-lift functions for wings of finite aspect ratio have been calculatedby correcting the aerodynamic inertia and the angle of attack of the infinite wing . the calculations are based on the operationalmethod .the starting lift of the finite wing is found to be only slightly lessthan that of the infinite wing,. whereas the final lift may be considerablyless . the theory indicates that the initial distribution oflift is similar to the final distribution .curves showing the variation of lift after a sudden unit change in angle of attack, during penetration of a sharpedge gust, and during a continuousoscillation are given . operational equivalents of thesefunctions have been devised to facilitate the calculation of lift undervarious conditions of motion . as an application of these formulas, thevertical acceleration of a loaded wing caused by penetrating a gust hasbeen calculated .
the unsteady-lift functions for a wing undergoing a sudden change insinking speed have been presented for delta wings having aspect ratiosof 0, 2, and 4 and for rectangular and elliptical wings having aspectratios of 0, 3, and 6 . for the elliptical and rectangular wings thespanwise lift distributions were also presented . these functions werecalculated from the lift coefficients associated with a wing oscillating harmonically in pure translational motion, as obtained from severalsources .the results of these calculations indicate that the normalizedunsteady-lift functions are substantially independent of the shape ofthe plan form for elliptical, rectangular, or moderately tapered wings,. however, for delta wings the increase of lift toward the steady-statevalue is much more rapid than that for the aforementioned wings of thesame aspect ratio . these results also corroborate the results of otherinvestigations in that the rate of growth of lift tends to increase with a decrease in aspect ratio . the shape of the spanwise distributions of the indicial lift seems to be, for all practical purposes, independentof time for rectangular and elliptical wings .
the problem of transient lift on two- and three-dimensional wings flying at high speeds is discussed as a boundary-value problem for theclassical wave equation . kirchhoffs formula is applied so that theanalysis is reduced, just as in the steady state, to an investigation of sources and doublets . the applications include the evaluation ofindicial lift and pitchingmoment curves for two-dimensional sinking andpitching wings flying at mach numbers equal to 0, 0.8, 1.0, 1.2, andtriangular wings in both forward and reversed flow are presented andcompared with the two-dimensional values .
the reciprocal equations for relating the incompressible circulatoryindicial lift to the lift due to harmonic oscillations have beenmodified to include the noncirculatory lift associated with apparentmasseffects . although the apparent-mass effects are impulsive innature in incompressible flow, the lift due to apparent-mass effects incompressible flow is a time-dependent function . the correspondingreciprocal equations for the total compressible lift are given . by useof the reciprocal equations for compressible flow, the indicial lift and moment functions due to an airfoil's experiencing a sudden acquisitionof vertical velocity are determined numerically for mach number 0.7 .lack of sufficient flutter coefficients prevents the calculation ofthese functions at other mach numbers .although the indicial lift and moment functions due to penetration of asharp-edge gust may be obtained from the oscillatory tab or aileron coefficientsby a similar analysis, sufficient coefficients are notavailable at the present . however, an approximate method is shown fordetermining a portion of this unsteady-lift function .when a comparison is made of the indicial lift functions at mach numbersappears to be less rapid for the compressible case than for the incompressiblecase . consequently, the calculation of the gust load factorat high subsonic mach numbers utilizing the two-dimensional incompressibleindicial lift functions and an over-all correction for compressibilitysuch as the prandtl-glauert factor might be conservative .
the indicial lift and moment functions are determined approximately forsinking and pitching motion at mach numbers m of 0.5 and 0.6 . thesefunctions are determined from a knowledge of the existing oscillatorycoefficients at the low reduced frequencies and from approximate expressionsof these coefficients at the high reduced frequencies .the beginning portion of the indicial lift function associated with anairfoil penetrating a sharp-edge gust in subsonic flow is evaluated byuse of an exact method . by use of an approximate method for determining the remaining portion, the complete indicial gust function is determinedfor m 0.5, m 0.6, and m 0.7 .all the indicial lift and moment functions are approximated by an exponentialseries,. the coefficients which appear in the exponentialapproximations for each indicial function are tabulated for m 0.5,m 0.6, and m 0.7 .
on the assumption of infinitely small disturbances the author developsa generalized integral equation of airfoil theory which is applicableto any motion and compressible fluid . successive specializations yieldvarious simpler integral equations, such as possio's, birnbaum's, andprandtl's integral equations, as well as new ones for the wing of infinitespan with periodic downwash distribution and for the oscillatingwing with high aspect ratio . lastly, several solutions and methods forsolving these integral equations are given .
a detailed description is given of a method of approximating solutionsto the integral equation that relates oscillatory or steady lift anddownwash distributions on finite wings in subsonic flow . the method ofsolution is applicable to general plan forms with either curved orstraight leading and trailing edges . moreover, it is directly applicableto control surfaces such as all-movable tails but modificationsare needed to apply it to controls in general . applications of themethod involve evaluations of numerous integrals that must be handled by numerical procedures but systematic schemes of evaluations have beenadopted that are well suited to the routines of automatic digital computingmachines . these schemes of evaluation have been incorporated ina program for an ibm 704 electronic data processing machine . with thismachine, a pressure distribution together with such quantities as sectionor total lift and moment coefficients or generalized forces can bedetermined for a given value of frequency and mach number and forseveral /four or five/ modes of oscillation in about 4 minutes ofmachine time . in the case of steady downwash conditions correspondingquantities can be obtained in about 2 minutes of machine time .in order to illustrate applications of the method, results of severalcalculations are presented . in these illustrations total forces andmoments are compared /1/ with results of analytic procedures for a circularplan form with steady downwash conditions, /2/ with results ofother theories and with experiment for a rectangular plan form of aspect ratio 1 at a uniform angle of attack, and /3/ with some experimentalresults for a rectangular plan form of aspect ratio 2 undergoing pitchingand flapping oscillations . also included in the illustrations areresults of flutter calculations compared with experimental results foran allmovable control surface of aspect ratio 3.50 and for a cantileveredrectangular plan form of aspect ratio 5.04 .
this report treats the kernel function of an integral equation that relatesa known or prescribed downwash distribution to an unknown liftdistribution for a harmonically oscillating finite wing in compressiblesubsonic flow . the kernel function is reduced to a form that can beaccurately evaluated by separating the kernel function into two parts .. a part in which the singularities are isolated and analytically expressedand a nonsingular part which may be tabulated . the form of thekernel function for the sonic case /mach number of 1/ is treatedseparately . in addition, results for the special cases of mach numberof o /incompressible case/ and frequency of o /steady case/ are given .the derivation of the integral equation which involves this kernelfunction, originally performed elsewhere /see, for example, naca technicalmemorandum 979/, is reproduced as an appendix . another appendixgives the reduction of the form of the kernel function obtained hereinfor the three-dimensional case to a known result of possio for twodimensionalflow . a third appendix contains some remarks on theevaluation of the kernel function, and a fourth appendix presents analternate form of expression for the kernel function .
in the theory of nonstationary flows about airfoils, the /indicial lift/ function k /s/ of wagner and the /alternating lift/ function c /k/ oftheodorsen have fundamental significance . this paper reports on someinteresting relations of the nature of fourier transforms that existbetween these functions . general problems in transient flows aboutairfoils may be given a unified broad treatment when these functions are employed . certain approximate results also are reported which are ofnotable simplicity, and an analogy with transient electrical flows isdrawn .
the leading edges and noses of hypersonic vehicles are subjected tosevere aerodynamic heating and must be cooled in some manner-dash e.g.,internal convection, transpiration, or radiation . it is this lattermode of handling the problem that is discussed in this paper . neglectingconduction in the leading-edge region, the maximum temperature forlong-range hypersonic gliders is of the same order as the melting pointof refractory materials, with a corresponding large temperature gradient away from the leading edge . inclusion of conduction in the aft directionreduces the maximum temperature and distributes the heat to alocation that will radiate it out from the surface . for either steadystateor transient conditions, the temperature at the leading edge isreduced by conduction, while the temperature aft of the leading-edgeshoulder is increased, thus setting up a heat transmission balance betweenthe convective influx of heat, the redistribution of heat by conduction,and the radiation of heat from the surface . the feasibility of such a mechanism can be enhanced by suitably choosing leading-edgeshapes and materials . the philosophy behind the choice of leading-edgeshapes is discussed and the effects of varying parameters, such asshape, diameter, emissivity, conductivity, thickness, etc., are shown .
tests were conducted at the langley research center on two winged liftinghypersonic reentry glider configurations . performance, stability,and control data are presented at mach numbers of 1.62 and 2.91 forangles of attack up to 15degree and at mach numbers of 6.8 and 9.6 forangles of attack up to 25degree .
data are presented which were obtained from a transonic wind-tunnel investigationof a reentry glider having folding wing-tip panels . thetests were conducted at angles of attack from -4degrees to 99degrees .the reynolds number based on the mean geometric chord of the fixedplanform varied from 2.35 x 10 to 2.99 x 10 .the maximum lift-drag ratio for the model with the folding wing-tippanels fully extended decreased from a maximum value of 7.8 at a machnumber of 0.60 to about 3.4 at mach numbers from 1.03 to 1.20 . themodel with the folding wing panels fully extended was stable for valuesof the lift coefficient from 0 up to at least 0.8 . above this lift coefficientpitch-up tendencies were observed, followed by an unstable orneutrally stable region which extended up to values of angle of attackof 50degrees or 60degrees . deflecting the folding wing panels betweenducing a significant change in the trim angle of attack or in any of the force or moment coefficients in the angle-of-attack range from 49degreeto 99degree .
an investigation was made to determine the smallest size of isolatedroughness that will affect transition in a laminar-boundary layer .critical heights for three types of roughness were found in a low-speedwind tunnel . the types were /1/ two-dimensional spanwise wires, /2/three-dimensional discs, and /3/ a sandpaper type . in addition to typeof roughness, test variables included the location of roughness, pressuredistribution, degree of tunnel turbulence, and length of naturallaminar flow .the most satisfactory correlation parameter was found to be the roughnessreynolds number, based on the height of roughness and flow propertiesat this height . the value of this critical reynolds number wasfound to be substantially independent of all test variables except theshape of roughness . this parameter also correlates well other published data on critical roughness in low-speed flow . the value of the roughnessreynolds number necessary to move transition forward to the roughnessitself was also determined for the three types of roughness and was found to be approximately constant for a given type of roughness .an investigation of the limited amount of available data on criticalroughness in supersonic flow indicates that the effects of roughness may still be correlated by the roughness reynolds number . the value ofthis reynolds number depends primarily on the mach number at the top ofthe roughness . when this mach number is greater than 1.0, the roughness reynolds number based on conditions behind a shock is probably thecharacteristic parameter .
an investigation was made at subsonic speeds in the langley highspeedlifting reentry configuration having folding wingtip panels . the configurationis of the type used in a high angle-of-attack /near 90degree/ reentry to minimize aerodynamic heating . by unfolding the wingtippanels into the airstream, a moderate angle-of-attack glide is used fora controlled landing . the basic configuration tested utilized awhose area was 25 percent of the total wing area . the effects ofvarying the plan form and size of the wingtip panels was studied as well as the effects of unfolding the wingtip panels in a high angle-ofattackattitude . tests were made at mach numbers of 0.40, 0.60, and
an investigation has been conducted at various reynolds numbers and lowsubsonic speeds to determine the longitudinal aerodynamic characteristicsassociated with a series of low-aspect-ratio wings having variationsin leading-edge contours . the planforms included a highly swepttriangular wing, a rectangular wing, and intermediate wings includingplanforms having elliptic and parabolic leading-edge contours, all havingan aspect ratio of 1.33 . the effects of changing aspect ratio for a given leading-edge contour were investigated for two of the wings presented,.also included are the longitudinal characteristics associatedwith various fuselage sizes . an effort has been made to estimate thelift variation with angle of attack for the wing planforms of thepresent investigation .improvements in the lifting capabilities at low subsonic speeds associatedwith a basic triangular planform of low aspect ratio are possibleby slight alterations in leading-edge design, which should still conform to possible design requirements at hypersonic speeds . these changes in planform resulted in increases in lift-curve slope, lift at high angles of attack, and in the maximum untrimmed lift-drag ratio, provided thefuselage was sufficiently small . the longitudinal stability characteristicsof the majority of planforms indicate more desirable stabilitycharacteristics at high lifts than either a triangular wing or rectangularwing of the same aspect ratio . the effects of increasing reynoldsnumber for each of the planforms investigated generally resultedin slight reductions in the lift at high angles of attack . a method ispresented for estimating the subsonic-lift variation with angle ofattack for the low-aspect-ratio wings of the present investigation andindicated good agreement with experimental data throughout the angleof-attackrange of this investigation .
an experimental investigation was conducted at a mach number of 6.2 todetermine the static longitudinal stability characteristics of a modelof a blunted glider reentry configuration having 79.5degree sweepbackand 45degree dihedral . the free-stream reynolds number for the investigationwas 3.0 x 10 based on the basic model length of 7.5 inches .tests were made through an angle-of-attack range from 0degrees toinvestigation showed that incorporating 10degree nose incidence in thebasic model resulted in a lower lift-curve slope, a lower lift-dragratio, a higher value of trim lift coefficient, and a decrease in static longitudinal stability . in comparison, the effect of extending theconfiguration length and incorporating 10degrees and 20degrees boattailangles resulted in smaller changes in the longitudinal stabilitycharacteristics of the model .
  theoretical blockage corrections are presented for a body ofrevolution and for a three-dimensional unswept wing in a circularor rectangular wind tunnel .  the theory takes account ofthe effects of the wake and of the compressibility of the fluid,and is based on the assumption that the dimensions of the modelare small in comparison with those of the tunnel throat .  formulasare given for correcting a number of the quantities, suchas dynamic pressure and mach number, measured in windtunneltests .  the report presents a summary and unificationof the existing literature on the subject .
  an analysis is given of theoscillating motion of a ballistic missilewhich upon entering the atmosphereis angularly misaligned with respectto the flight path .  the history ofthe motion for some example missilesis discussed from the point of viewof the effect of the motion on theaerodynamic heating and loading .the miss distance at the target due tomisalignment and to small accidentaltrim angles is treated .  the stabilityproblem is also discussed forthe case where the missile istumbling prior to atmospheric entry .
  an analysis is made of the oscillatorymotion of vehicles whichtraverse arbitrarily prescribed trajectoriesthrough the atmosphere .expressions for the oscillatory motionare derived as continuous functionsof the properties of the trajectory .  results are applied to a study ofthe oscillatory behavior of re-entryvehicles which have decelerations thatremain within limits of human tolerance.  it is found that a deficiency ofaerodynamic damping for suchvehicles may have more serious consequencesthan it does for comparableballistic missiles .
the dynamic behavior of two probe vehicles entering a martian atmosphere in a passive manner with arbitrary initial angles of attack and pitchingrates to 12degree per second has been determined . results for anentry velocity of 21,700 feet per second and an entry angle of -40degree were obtained from machine calculated solutions of the six-degree-offreedomrigid-body equations of motion using experimental aerodynamiccharacteristics for the vehicles . one of the vehicles had a flat baseand was statically stable in two attitudes /nose forward and base forward/. the other vehicle, derived from the first by adding a conicalafterbody, was statically stable in only one attitude /nose forward/ .a 10-rpm vehicle spin rate, believed ample for the purpose ofdistributing solar and aerodynamic heating over the vehicle surface, and model atmospheres encompassing the probable extremes for the planetwere also considered .it was found that while the motion of the flat-based vehicle could beoscillatory about either the nose-forward or base-forward stable trimattitudes when aerodynamic heating rates were high, the range of initial angles of attack resulting in base-forward orientation was reduced bymore than a factor of 3. when initial pitch rates were increased frombody having only nose-forward stability showed that oscillatory anglesof attack at maximum heating-rate conditions probably would not exceedabout 25degrees although angles of attack when heating rates were 50percent of maximum could be as high as 40degree . values of these upperbound angles of attack were essentially independent of initial pitchrates for the range considered . furthermore, the envelope of maximumprobable angles of attack was increased only slightly when the vehiclewas given a 10-rpm spin rate . the relationship between maximum amplitudesof oscillation and heating rates through high heating portions ofthe trajectories was preserved when model atmospheres believed to encompassthe extreme possibilities for mars were used in the calculations
cosmonautics is currently very much to the forefront in the news .it embraces and extends aeronautics, and i would like to proposeincluding both, at least on certain occasions, under a general denominationof /aerocosmonautics/ .in your country, the sciences and technology of space are subjects whichhave been backed by initial advances and abundantly treated .since france has not yet launched any artificial satellite or builtany circumlunar space vehicle, i propose to confine myself here to thefield of aeronautics, where there is still so much progress of manifestutility to accomplish .i shall accordingly content myself with presenting some examples ofaeronautical research and experiments undertaken in my country byonera, a body whose mission is akin to that of the illustrious naca,now nasa, but bearing in mind the considerable difference between thescales of the respective resources .
the equations of motion of a tumbling flat plate entering an exponential atmosphere were linearized and solved analytically to obtain a simpleexpression for the altitude at which tumbling would cease and librationwould commence . the plate had only three degrees of freedom, andaerodynamic forces were derived from newtonian impact theory . in thelinear analysis, mean values of the drag and pitch damping coefficientsso that flutter occurs in the range of a low-speed wind tunnel .a particular type of construction for supersonic flutter models is describedin detail . methods of vibration testing, static testing, andflutter testing are discussed . particular emphasis is placed on thetechnique of varying flow parameters rather than model parameters toprecipitate flutter . the tool for varying flow parameters is thevariable mach number supersonic test section of the massachusetts instituteof technology blowdown wind tunnel . the aerodynamic features of the supersonic test section are presented .
this paper reviews some of the experience to date of using sandwich typestructures in severe acoustic pressure environments .  the methodsused for testing sandwich structures for acoustic fatigue are describedand their limitations considered .  experimental and theoretical workrelating to the damping and mode-frequency relationships of certainsandwich configurations is also reviewed .special attention is given to the estimation of the stress in the bondof a honeycomb sandwich panel subjected to sudden pressurefluctuations .  a /uni-modal/ theory is presented, relating the meansquarebond-stress to the random exciting pressure and panel dynamiccharacteristics .  this theory indicates that tensile bond stressesmay be encountered of up to six times the local r.m.s. excitingpressure .  these must be combined with bending and shear stressesto obtain the principal stresses which precipitate bond fatiguefailures .finally, an outline is given of some of the lines of future researchwhich should lead to the achieving of the maximum possible fatigueresistance from sandwich configurations .
  aircraft structures located in the near noise field of a jetengine are subjected to extremely high fluctuating pressures thatmay cause structural fatigue .  studies of such structures havebeen limited by lack of knowledge of the loadings involved .  the acoustic near field produced by the exhaust of a stationaryturbojet engine having a high pressure ratio was measured fora single operating condition without afterburning .  the maximumover-all sound pressure without afterburning was foundto be about 42 pounds per square foot along the jet boundary inthe region immediately downstream of the jet-nozzle exit .with afterburning the maximum sound pressure was increasedby 50 percent .  the largest sound pressures without afterburningwere obtained on a constant percentage band width basis inthe frequency range from 350 to 700 cps .  additional tests were made at a few points to find the effectof jet velocity on near-field sound pressures and to determinethe difference in value between sound-pressure levels at rigidsurfaces and corresponding free-field values .  near the jetnozzle, over-all sound pressures were found to vary as a lowpower (approx. unity) of the jet velocity .  over-all sound-pressurelevels considerably greater than the corresponding free-fieldlevels were recorded at the surface of a rigid plate placed alongthe jet boundary .  the downstream locations of the maximum sound pressureat any given frequency along the jet-engine-exhaust boundaryand the longitudinal turbulent-velocity maximum of the samefrequency along a small cold-air jet at 1 nozzle-exit radius fromthe jet axis were found to be nearly the same when compared ona dimensionless basis .  also, the strouhal number of the correspondingspectra maximums was found to be nearly equal atsimilar distances downstream .  in addition to the magnitude and frequency distribution ofthe acoustic pressures, it is necessary to know the cross correlationof the pressure over the surface area .  cross-correlationmeasurements with microphones were made for a range of jetvelocities at locations along the jet and at a distance from thejet .  free-field correlations of the over-all sound pressure andof the sound pressure in frequency bands from 100 to 1000 cpswere obtained both longitudinally and laterally .  in addition,correlations were obtained with microphones mounted at thesurface of a rigid plate that was large compared with the distanceover which a positive correlation existed .  the region of positive correlation was generally found toincrease with distance downstream of the engine to 6.5 nozzleexitdiameters, but remained nearly constant thereafter .  ingeneral, little change in the correlation curves was found as afunction of jet velocity or frequency-band width .  the distancefrom unity correlation to the first zero correlation was greater forlateral than for longitudinal correlations for the same conditionsand locations .  the correlation curves obtained in freespace and on the surface of the plate were generally similar .  the results are interpreted in terms of pressure loads onsurfaces .
  the response of a section of tailplane structure to both discreteand random noise pressures has been studied in detail .  initially thespecimen was mounted behind a jet engine and the induced strains wereanalysed with the object of determining both the resonant frequenciesand the corresponding modes of vibration .  during these tests a surveywas made of the spectrum and correlation pattern of the jet noise onthe surface of the model .  secondly the specimen was mounted in frontof a loudspeaker in an acoustics laboratory and the structuralresonances were excited by means of discrete frequency sound .  the modeshapes were studied in detail with the aid of a stroboscope .  it is concluded that the tailplane skin on this particular pieceof structure only responds to any significant degree in one structuralmode .  although reasonable comparison has been obtained between therandom and discrete tests, it was not possible to calculate the inducedstresses using the observed mode shapes and measured pressureexcitation .
on the assumption that the forced modes of vibration of a structure,subjected to pressure fluctuations random in time and space, can beapproximated by the composition of the motions of the uncouplednatural modes, a general analysis is made using the ideas of vibrationtheory and spectrum analysis .  the power spectrum, and hence therms value, of any quantity depending linearly upon structuraldistortions is derived and it involves a quantity (called the /jointacceptance/) concerning the spacewise structure of the pressurefield and of the geometry of the modes of vibration .  it is shown howthis result may be used (on assuming /normal/ randomness) to estimatethe fatigue life on the hypothesis of cumulative damage .
with the introduction of high-poweredpropulsion systems, and paralleling theircontinued development, an accompanyingincrease in acoustical problems has arisen .  of these acoustical problems, that ofacoustical fatigue failures has become paramountin the eyes of the structural engineer .  aircraftdesigned to normal strength requirements havebeen known literally to fall apart under acousticalloading .  this problem has required much endeavourto produce a solution, and considerablestructural research, based upon results of siren orother testing, have proved inadequate .  thisfailure to find a satisfactory solution has resultedin the conviction that the final proof of a designcan be found only in proof testing .  proof testing,in the acoustic fatigue sense, is the testing of adesign structure in a simulated acoustical environmentfor a period of time long enough to assureequality with design life .
  an analysis is made of experimentally determined mode shapesexcited on the rear structure of a modern airliner by jet noise froma pod-mounted turbojet engine .  power spectra of stresses determinedfrom strain-gage measurements are obtained and cross correlated.  extensive measurements were made on skin panels of thefuselage and elevator and limited ones were made on fuselagestringers and frames .  the skin-panel results are compared withtheoretical predictions .  reviewer believes that this paper is ofconsiderable value for those concerned with response of aircrafttypestructures to jet-induced noise .
  experience has shown that the fluctuating loads induced by ajet may cause fatigue failure of aircraft structural components .in order to throw some light on this and similar problems, thestress spectrum and the /equivalent fatigue stress/ of an elasticstructure subjected to random loading are studied .  the analysisis simplified by assuming the structure to have only a single degreeof freedom and by using the concept of cumulative damage,the results being expressed in terms of quantities that can bedirectly measured .  as an example, a similarity expression forthe probable value of the equivalent fatigue stress of a panelsubjected to jet buffeting is derived .
  a study was made of the fatiguelife of simple 2024-t3 aluminumalloypanels measuring 11 by 13inches and exposed to both discretefrequencynoise from a siren andrandom noise from an air jet .  noiselevels varied from approximatelypanel variables included thickness,edge conditions, curvature, andstatic-pressure differential .  no significant differences were notedin the nature of failuresexperienced for the two types of loadings .at a given root-mean-squarestress level, the failure times weregenerally shorter for the randomloading than for the discrete-frequencyloading .  these differences infailure times were noted to be a functionof stress level, the largerdifferences occurring at the lower stress levels .  increases in time to failure wereobtained as a result of increasedpanel thickness, increased panel curvature,and particularly for increasedstatic-pressure differential across curved panels .  for the discrete-type loading,the location of weak points in thesesimplified structural designs can besatisfactorily accomplished butquantitative predictions of fatiguelife are much more difficult .
the determination of the natural frequencies and normal modes of vibrationfor continuous panels, representing more or less typical fuselageskin-panel construction for modern airplanes, is discussed in this paperare considered . a numerical example is presented, and analyticalresults for a particular structural configuration agree favorably withavailable experimental measurements .
theoretical aspects involved in the prediction of stress levels forcontinuous skin-stiffener panels subjected to a random pressure fieldare considered in the light of powell's general theory for statisticalsuperposition of modal response . the choice of structural model isdictated by the prevalence of skin-stiffener construction in modernflight vehicle design . the present study clearly demonstrates that anytruly adequate prediction of stress levels in actual aircraft structures requires a much better representation of structural characteristicsthan can be provided by single panel idealizations . in an example consideringfuselage panels exposed to jet engine noise, essential agreementis shown with experimental data, although better correlation isshown for rms stress than for power spectrum . it is shown that reductionof stress level by increasing damping is effective only in thehigher frequency range .
  the present paper contains an applicationof a recently developed variationalmethod to the boundary value problem of thebending of a clamped plate of arbitraryshape .  it will be shown that this problemcan be linked to the simpler problemof the equilibrium of a membrane by a chainof intermediate problems, which can besolved explicitly and in finite form in termsof the membrane problem .  in the intermediateproblems, the deflection convergesuniformly in the domain of the plateof the clamped plate, and the derivativesof all orders of the deflection convergeuniformly in every domain completely interiorto the plate .  (in the ritz method, not eventhe convergence of the slopes can beguaranteed .)  the method yields numericalresults for plates of all shapes for whichthe membrane problem (which we shall callthe base problem) admits an explicit solution.  as an example we shall consider aclamped square plate under a uniform load .this problem has been the object ofnumerous investigations, some of which aretheoretical, while others are purely numerical,use infinite simple and double series,and operate with an infinite number oflinear equations and an infinite number ofunknowns .  an inspection of the generalformulae derived in the present paper, formulaewhich become simple in numericalapplications, would show how some of thenumerical methods might be renderedrigorous .  the convergence of higher derivativesis of great practical interest forthe approximate computation of the stresses .
  let w(x,y) be a solution of the boundary value problemwhere r is a planedomain with the boundary c .  the authors obtain upper andlower bounds for, the value of w at a point in r,by a method which is applicable to many other problems .  if u is a function satisfying the boundary conditionsand v is a function satisfying the partial differential equation,then the authors obtain by applying green's classicalidentity and schwarz's inequality a pair of inequalitiesof the form where .  together with the function w the authors consider afunction the solution of the boundary value problemon c, and inanalogy with the functions u and v associated with the functionw a pair of functions and associated with the function.  in the expression for derived from green'sclassical identity appears an unknown line integral containingthe values of w and on c .  but the same lineintegral appears also in the expressions forto which the above inequalities areapplicable .  in this way the authors obtain two inequalities of the formwhere b and b', respectively, are approximatevalues of .  in order to improve these boundsone may add to u a linear set of functions and to v alinear set of functions and then minimize h(u-v) in orderto determine the coefficients of the best linear combinations .if the sequences and are complete in a certain sensedefined by the authors the approximations will converge tothe value .
  the displacement of a flat plate bentby transverse loading, and the extensionalor in 'plane stress', are governed by equationsof identical form ,. and the boundaryconditions have identical form when edgedisplacementsare specified in the flexural,edge-tractions in the extensional problem,so mathematically, in these circumstances,only a single problem is presented .  this,the 'first analogue' relating flexure andextension, is well known .  a 'second analogue', relating the flexuralproblem when edge-tractions with theextensional problem when edge-displacementsare specified, is believed to have beenfirst propounded in 1941 .  by introducingtwo quantities u and v, analogous withthe components u and v of extensionaldisplacement, it permits a treatment of theflexural problem by any method--e.g.which yields extensional solutions of thissecond type .  in this paper both analogues are combinedin an inclusive statement covering theperforated (multiply connected) plates whichwere discussed in 1948 .  reasons arestated for believing that 'two-diagram technique'is preferable in problems governedby 'mixed' boundary conditions .
  the problem of evaluating the bending moments, existingin a uniformly loaded clamped plate having the formof a sector of a ring, is one which arises in connection withthe stress analysis of reinforced piston heads and in otherdesign problems .  in this paper, expressions are derivedfor the bending moments along the edges of such a plate .similar problems, i.e., those of the clamped rectangularplate under uniform pressure, under a central concentratedload, and that of the simply supported sector of adisk under uniform pressure, have been discussed byprevious authors .  the general approach used in the foregoingproblems is adopted in the present case ,. a considerablereduction in the computational work is achieved,however, by the use of an integral-equation method ofsolving the boundary-condition equations .  numericalresults are obtained for plates of various dimensions, andthe edge moment distributions are plotted for these cases .curves are also plotted which indicate the relationshipexisting between the maximum bending moments derivedfor sectorial plates and those previously obtained forclamped rectangular plates of similar size .
  the deflexion of a uniformly loadedplate in the form of a semicircle clampedalong its boundary is obtained by amethod due to weinstein .  this problemrequires the solution of the biharmonicequation where z is given,subject to the conditions that w = 0 andon the boundary, n being thedirection of the outward normal .  the solutionis expressed in the formwhere, writing is foundby solving (in succession) two harmonicequations of the forms where z maybe zero, and where f andhave to satisfy certain boundary conditions .the constants are then determinedto satisfy the boundary condition .  numerical calculations show that five or sixterms of the series give agood approximation to the accurate value asjudged by the closeness with whichthe approximate solution satisfies the boundarycondition .  the procedureto be adopted in the case of the generalcircular sector and for non-uniformloading is indicated briefly .  the connexion between the deflexion problemand that of plane strain in whichthe stress function satisfies the equation,where and have givenvalues on the boundary, is discussed as a preliminaryto the further considerationof the latter problem by a method of the same type .
  this paper analyzes the bending of a sectorial plate,clamped on all edges and subjected to uniformly distributedload, by using two different methods of superpositionon the elementary solution for a uniformly loaded circularplate with a clamped edge .
  a general method of solution is given in this paper forthe problem of bending of a wedge-shaped thin elasticplate with arbitrary boundary conditions on the radial edgesin the case of a single load .  the solution is carried out fora plate with clamped edges and a single load on the bisectorradius of the plate .  stress distribution along the edgesis shown and the behavior of the solution near the cornerpoint is discussed for several opening angles of the plate .
  the extensional and flexural equationsgoverning the elastic behaviour of a plateof variable thickness are expressed interms of the laplacian operator .  temperaturevariations in the plane of theplate and across the thickness of the plateare taken into account .  general solutions are given for a rectangularplate whose thickness varies exponentiallyalong the length, and for a circular,or annular, plate whose thickness variesas a power of the radius .  the large-deflexion equations, includingeffects of initial irregularities, are alsodiscussed .
  a method for finding real and complexroots of polynomial equations, due tod. muller, is applied to finding roots ofgeneral equations of the form f(z) = 0,where f(z) is analytic in the neighborhoodof the roots .  the procedure does notdepend on any prior knowledge of thelocation of the roots nor on any specialstarting process .  all that is required isthe ability to evaluate f(z) for any desiredvalue of z .  multiple roots can also beobtained .  a general purpose program,prepared for the univac scientific 1103and 1103a, is described and numericalresults are presented for the followingapplications ..  finding eigenvalues of differentialoperators ,. finding eigenvalues ofarbitrary matrices ,. finding zeros of thegeneralized eigenvalue problem ,. findingroots of a number of transcendentalequations .
in two previous papers the authors have discussedin detail the inadequacy of the classical theory ofthin shells in explaining the buckling phenomenon ofcylindrical and spherical shells .  it was shown thatnot only the calculated buckling load is 3 to 5 timeshigher than that found by experiments, but the observedwave pattern of the buckled shell is also differentfrom that predicted .  furthermore, it was pointedout that the different explanations for this discrepancyadvanced by l. h. donnell and w. flugge are untenablewhen certain conclusions drawn from these explanationsare compared with the experimental facts .by a theoretical investigation on spherical shells theauthors were led to the belief that in general thebuckling phenomenon of curved shells can only be explainedby means of a non-linear large deflection theory .this point of view was substantiated by model experimentson slender columns with non-linear elastic support.  the non-linear characteristics of such structurescause the load necessary to keep the shell in equilibriumto drop very rapidly with increase in wave amplitudeonce the structure started to buckle .  thus, firstof all, a part of the elastic energy stored in the shell isreleased once the buckling has started,. this explainsthe observed rapidity of the buckling process .  furthermore,as it was shown in one of the previous papersthe buckling load itself can be materially reduced byslight imperfections in the test specimen and vibrationsduring the testing process .  in this paper, the same ideas are applied to the caseof a thin uniform cylindrical shell under axial compression.  first it is shown by an approximate calculationthat again the load sustained by the shell dropswith increasing deflection .  then the results of thiscalculation are used for a more detailed discussion ofthe buckling process as observed in an actual testingmachine .
  the value of the compressive stress at whicha thin circular cylindrical shell becomes unstable has beenworked out theoretically by southwell (1914) .  subsequentexperimental results, however, have indicated that thisvalue is appreciably too high and that the form of distortionwhich occurs in practice differs from that assumed in theory .  in recent years much work has been done on this problemin america .  lundquist (1933) and donnell (1934)have concluded that the buckling of a cylindrical shell is greatlyinfluenced by initial irregularities,. von karman andtsien (1941) have indicated that a thin cylindrical shell can bemaintained in a buckled state by a compressive loadconsiderably smaller than that previously predicted by theory .  the present paper is an extension of the work of von karmanand tsien .  it shows that the smallest load which willkeep a thin cylindrical shell in a buckled condition is about one-thirdof that given by southwell, a result in very fairagreement with experiment, and that once the cylinder has buckled,and so long as the stresses remain within the elasticrange of the material, the cylinder has only about one-quarter of itsoriginal stiffness .
  the fundamental investigations of von karman and tsienon the buckling of cylindrical shells under axial compressionare continued .  the energy expression is simplified and minimizedwith respect to the axial and circumferential wave-lengthparameters .  solution of the equations obtained yields curvesof the reduced average stress and of the wave dimensions plottedagainst the reduced average strain .  they illustrate the behaviorof the cylinder during the buckling process .  the minimumbuckling stress is found to be 0.195e(tr) .
  the postbuckling characteristics of an axially compressedthin-walled circular cylindrical shell loaded either by dead weightsor by a rigid testing machine are determined .  it is shown thatfor either loading condition the minimum applied stress in thepostbuckling region is 0.182(er) and that the region of stableequilibrium corresponding to loading by the rigid testing machineincludes and extends beyond that obtained with dead weightloading .  the work here described is a continuation of work doneearlier by von karman and tsien, by michielsen, and by leggettand jones .
in the present paper a short survey will be given first of the bucklingand postbuckling behavior of isotropic cylindrical shells subjectedto different loading conditions as obtained by the nonlinear theoryof finite deflections of shells during the last twenty years .next a report will be given on new investigations carried out in thestructures department of the dvl concerning the elastic stability ofisotropic and orthotropic cylindrical shells loaded in axial compressionand internal pressure .  these studies are based on the nonlinear theoryof finite deformations .  the theoretical rsults will be compared withnew experimental results obtained with a series of axially loadedpressurized isotropic and orthotropic cylindrical shells .
  for thin shells the relation betweenthe load p and the deflection beyond theclassical buckling load is very oftennon-linear .  for instance, when a uniform thincircular cylinder is loaded in the axialdirection, the load p when plotted against theend-shortening has the characteristicshown in fig. 1 .  if the strain energy s and thetotal potential are calculated,their behavior can be represented by thecurves shown in figs. 2 and 3 .  it can bedemonstrated that the branches oc and abcorresponds to stable equilibrium configurationsand the branch bc to unstable equilibriumconfigurations .  the point b is thenthe point of transition from stable to unstableequilibrium configurations .
the greatest or least value of a function of severalvariables is to be found when the variablesare restricted to a given region .  a method isdeveloped for dealing with this problem and iscompared with possible alternatives .  the methodcan be used on a digital computer, and isincorporated in a program for mercury .
  a review is given of developmentsin the field of aeroelasticity during thepast ten years .  the effect of steadily increasingmach number has been two-fold ..  onthe one hand the aerodynamic derivatives havechanged, and in some cases brought newproblems, and on the other hand the design forhigher mach numbers has led to thinneraerofoils and more slender fuselages for whichthe required stiffness is more difficult toprovide .  both these aspects are discussed,and various methods of attack on theproblems are considered .  the relative meritsof stiffness, damping and massbalancefor the prevention of control surface flutter arediscussed .  a brief mention is made ofthe recent problems of damage from jet effluxand of the possible aeroelastic effectsof kinetic heating .
  a theoretical investigation of symmetricbody freedom flutter of a rocket model is described .  the resultsconfirm that structural failures of models were causedby this type of flutter, and an extension of the investigationindicates the parameters that are of importance .  a highratio of body to wing mass and a well forward position of theoverall centre of gravity are conditions under which fluttermay occur .  increase of body pitching radius of gyrationand tailplane volume are beneficial .  it is concluded that this type of flutter may be significantin some aircraft designs, and that the canard has noadvantage in this respect over the conventional lay-out of wingand tailplane .
this report gives tables of the two-dimensional subsonic flutterderivatives,. where possible the values given are based on the published work of various authors, but some have been specially calculated forthis report . wing derivatives are given for mach numbers 0, 0.5, 0.6and 0.7 for the frequency parameter range 0 /0.04/ 0.2 /0.2/ 1.6 andmach numbers 0 and 0.7 for frequency parameter 5.0 . control surfacederivatives are given for mach numbers 0 and 0.7 for control surface/wing chord ratios 0.02 /0.02/ 0.10 /0.05/ 0.50 and frequency parametersare also given for mach numbers 0, 0.5, 0.6 and 0.7 for frequencyparameter 0 /0.04/ 0.2 /0.2/ 1.4 . control surface-tab derivatives aregiven for some particular values of the variables and methods ofobtaining approximate values of these derivatives for other values ofthe variables are suggested . control surface and tab derivatives are in all cases for no aerodynamic balance .
  the report describes tests to obtain directmeasurements of the aerodynamic effects of aspect ratio andsweepback on wing flutter .  the tests were made on rigidwings with root flexibilities .  it is shown that measured effects of aspect ratio andsweepback on the flutter of these wings can be representedquite closely in flutter calculations based on two-dimensionalflow theory by multiplying the two-dimensional aerodynamiccoefficients by appropriate factors .  the effect ofsweepback is represented by multiplying all aerodynamiccoefficients by cos, where is the wing leading-edgesweepback, and the effect of aspect ratio is represented bymultiplying the aerodynamic damping coefficients by 1f(a) and,the stiffness coefficients by 1(f(a)) where a is theaspect ratio .  for the wings tested an average value forf(a) is f(a) = (1 + (0.8a)) .
  by means of suitable expansionsin inverse powers of r, theradius of curvature of the nozzle profileat the throat measured in throathalf-heights, the velocity componentsin the throat region of aconvergent-divergent nozzle can becalculated .  the first three terms ofthe series solution have been obtainedboth for two-dimensional and foraxially-symmetric nozzles .  thenumerical accuracy of the solution isconfirmed by comparison with theknown exact solution along the branchline .
  the results are given ofsome observations of the effects ofend plates on the three-dimensionalseparated flow at the ends ofcylindrical models .  while these areby no means exhaustive, it is feltthat they are of sufficient interestto merit putting on record .
  a method for making an approximate thickness correction to slenderthin-wing theory is presented .  the method is tested by applying it tocones with rhombic cross-sections and the agreement is found to be goodif the cones are not too thick .  it is then suggested that thethickness correction to slender thin-wing theory may be appliedunchanged to linear thin-wing theory .  this suggestion is compared withsome experiments on delta wings and it is found that there is considerableimprovement over thin-wing theory near the centre line, but thatthis improvement is not maintained as the wing tips are approached .
  the quasi-steady approach to flutter utilizes experimental ortheoretical steady-state aerodynamic data to arrive at increasedunderstanding of the flutter mechanism, and also, in many cases,acceptably accurate quantitative flutter predictions .  circulationlag effects are neglected, but aerodynamic damping is includedin the evaluation of the air forces .  situations requiringthe inclusion of rate aerodynamics for accurate flutter estimationare specified .  a quasi-unsteady approach is also discussed, in which theapproximate magnitude of the circulation lag function at flutteris included in simple modifications of quasi-steady parameters .  closed-form solutions are derived for the flutter characteristicsof a typical section with and without rate aerodynamics .  applicationis then made to the rational flutter analysis of threedimensionalmulti-degree-of-freedom lifting surfaces .  a specific planform is evaluated in the mach-number rangefrom zero to two .  quasi-steady, quasi-unsteady, and kernelfunctionresults are compared subsonically .  quasi-steady resultsare utilized supersonically .  primary applications of the quasi-steady approach are in theareas of preliminary design and parameter-variation studies,modification of more sophisticated flutter theories to force compatibilitywith available steady-state data, and flutter evaluationof complex configurations which can be rationally analyzed bysteady-state aerodynamic theories, but for which no completeunsteady aerodynamic theories are presently available .
  this paper shows how to calculate the rate of heat transferthrough a laminar boundary layer on a semi-infinite cylinder ofarbitrary cross section .  the cylinder is placed in a stream ofincompressible fluid, the flow at infinity being parallel to thegenerators, and is maintained at a uniform temperature .  aseries solution for small downstream distances and an asymptoticformula for large downstream distances are given .  to coverthe intermediate range an approximate pohlhausen solution isobtained,. a correction of the error involved in the pohlhausensolution is suggested which, it is believed, will lead to final errorsof at most 2 percent .  the calculations are applied to ellipticcylinders, and illustrate the effect on the local rate of heat transferof varying the ratio of the major and minor axes of cross section,the length of perimeter being held fixed .
  this report describes a method which has been developed for measuringoscillatory derivatives on sting-mounted models in the 8 ft by 8 ftsupersonic tunnel at r.a.e. bedford .  direct and cross derivatives withrespect to angular displacements and velocities in pitch and yaw havebeen measured satisfactorily, and results are given of tests on acambered ogee wing at six mach numbers from 0.2 to 2.6 .  some testswere made on this model in the course of the preliminary developmentwork in the 13 ft by 9 ft low speed wind tunnel, and results of theseare included .
in a recent note, klein referred to a paper co-authored by the writer,and to ref. 3 .  regarding the subject of inversion of large-ordermatrices, klein stated that he would show 'that the situation is not ashopeless as the anove-mentioned authors intimate' .the purpose of this note is not to take exception to klein/sconclusions, but rather to disagree with his implication that theauthors of ref. 2 were pessimistic with respect to large-matrixinversions .  two general methods of analysis were treated..  themethod of consistent distortion and the method of transfer matrices .the first method leads directly to a relatively large matrix ofstructural coefficients of both internal forces and displacements .this matrix must be inverted to solve the problem .  the second methodultimately produces a relatively small matrix requiring inversion.,however, to arrive at this point one must perform a number of matrixmultiplications .
  a study has been made of the flow developmentover the wing as the incidence and streammach number vary and this is illustrated by surface pressuredistributions and oil-flow patterns .  the growthand movement of the two main surface shocks (the rear andforward shocks) is discussed, and conditions forflow separation through these shocks are considered .  forthe rear shock, which has little sweep, theseconditions are similar to those for shock-induced separationon two-dimensional aerofoils .  the forwardshock is comparatively highly swept and separation seemsto correspond to two rather different butsimultaneously-attained conditions, one related to thecomponent mach number normal to the shock frontand the other to the position of the reattachment line .  the flow in the region between the leading edge andthe forward shock is shown to have certain characteristicsanalogous to those found upstream of the shock ontwo-dimensional aerofoils .  to the rear of the forwardshock, but ahead of the rear shock, the flow at lowsupersonic speeds resembles in some respects that abouta simple cone .  the general flow development is related in thetext to the wing lift and pitching moment, and the drag .the first two are most affected by the aft movementof the rear shock, which also stimulates the transonicdrag rise .  the lift-dependent drag is shown to beinfluenced by the appearance of leading-edge separationand possibly also by some stage in the developmentof the forward shock .  the flow over the cropped-delta planform isnoteworthy for the absence of the strong outboard shockand this is attributed partly to the cropped tip andpartly to the unswept trailing edge .  a comparison is madewith results obtained during preliminary tests inwhich the wing planform closely resembled that of a truedelta .
  from a study of existing sonic-boomtheory it has been possible to establishan approximate lower bound of attainablesonic-boom overpressure, which dependsonly on the airplane length, weight, andvolume and on the flight conditions .this lower bound may be approached overa narrow range of flight conditionsthrough the application of appropriatedesign considerations .  in general, forintermediate values of lift coefficientthe major portion of the lift generatingsurfaces must be located aft of themaximum cross-sectional area, whereas forhigher values of lift coefficientthe maximum area must be well forward and orthe lift-producing surfaces must extend well toward the airplane nose .
  a cone with a blunt nose tip and ablunt nose tip and a 20 flared cylinderafterbody have been tested in freeflight over a mach number range from 0.30to 2.85 and a reynolds number rangefrom 1 x 10 to 23 x 10 .  time histories,cross plots of force and moment coefficients,and plots of the longitudinal-forcecoefficient, rolling velocity,aerodynamic center, normal-force-curve slope,and dynamic stability are presented .with the center-of-gravity location at aboutmodels were both statically and dynamicallystable throughout the mach numberrange .  for the cone, the average aerodynamiccenter moved slightly forward withdecreasing speeds and the normal-force-curveslope was fairly constant throughoutthe speed range .  for the ogive, the averageaerodynamic center remained practicallyconstant and the normal-force-curveslope remained practically constant toa mach number of approximately 1.6 wherea rising trend was noted .  maximum dragcoefficient for the cone, with referenceto the base area, was approximately 0.6,and for the ogive, with reference to thearea of the cylindrical portion, wasapproximately 2.1 .
  an analytical and experimental study is made for inelasticinstability of initially imperfect cylindrical shells subject toaxial compression .  donnell's equations and the principle ofvirtual work are adapted to determine the effects of initialimperfections on the buckling modes and the critical bucklingstresses .  the deformation theory and the incremental theoryof plastic stress-strain relationships are both considered .  theexperimental results of ten tests on specimens made of aluminumalloy 3003-0 are presented .  comparison of experimental withtheoretical results indicates that the application of the deformationtheory provides a fairly accurate prediction of bucklingstrength, but fails in this case to yield a correct description ofpost-buckling behavior .  on the other hand, the application ofthe incremental theory, which is mathematically and physicallymore rigorous, leads to an overestimation of buckling strength,even though initial imperfections are considered .  this paradoxhas existed for years, and remains to be resolved .
  a theoretical study is made of the buckling of a sandwich spherecomprised of a core layer of low-modulus material and two thinfacing layers of higher modulus material .  the solution for thebuckling resistance of the sphere under normal external pressureis obtained by linearized theory, and is reducible to the classicalsolution for monocoque spherical shells .  critical buckling pressuresare calculated for various radius-thickness ratios and spherematerials .
a strain-analysis method is derived and demonstrated for thecalculation of design allowable load-strain curves for the cross sectionof a structure supporting axial loads and bending moments .  thetemperature effects of thermal stresses and changed material propertiesand all inelastic effects are included in the calculations so thatthe final curve is a design curve for the applied stresses as calculatedby room-temperature elastic procedures .  the method allows for sequenceapplication and removal of load and temperature, as well as cyclingof load and/or temperature .  applications are shown for a rectangularbar under temperature cycling with axial loads and/or bending momentsand for a box beam with one bending-moment temperature cycle .  interactioncurves beyween axial load and bending moment with inelasticeffects included are given, the calculations being done on a digitalcomputer .  a procedure is given for using the method to constructdesign curves .
  the effect of internal pressure on the small-deflection bucklingof thin-walled cylinders under bending is investigated by meansof a modified donnell equation .  the results indicate that themaximum critical stress due to bending increases with internalpressure, unlike the case of pressurized cylinders under compression.  these results represent the moment at which significantdeformations appear in the cylinder, rather than the maximummoment able to be carried, but may be a good approximationto the latter for metal cylinders .
  resonant breathing frequencies and mode shapes are determinedexperimentally for a thin-walled, circular cylindrical shellcontaining a nonviscous incompressible liquid .  the resonantfrequencies determined for the full shell are in good agreementwith those predicted by reissner's shallow-shell vibration theorywith the inclusion of an apparent-mass term for the liquid .  theeffect of the internal liquid on the shell mode shapes is significantonly for the partially full shell .  in this case the circumferentialnode lines tend to shift toward the bottom or filled portion of theshell .  excitation of low-frequency liquid-sloshing motion by highfrequencyforced oscillation of a partially filled shell occurred inmany cases .  this low-frequency liquid response is tentativelyexplained as being excited by a beat frequency in the forcedoscillation .  a similar type of response has been reported byyarymovych in axially excited rigid tanks .
  the principle of the minimum of the total potential is employedto obtain stresses and displacements for clamped, short,oval cylindrical shells under hydrostatic pressure .  classicalshell theory, in which buckling effects are not considered, wasused .  a fourier series is assumed for the deflections in theclosed circumferential direction so that the partial differentialequations of equilibrium are replaced by a set of ordinary differentialequations .  the energy solution is compared with a simplifiedapproximation which can be considered an equivalent circularcylinder solution .  graphs of the significant stresses and displacementsare presented for oval cylinders having major to minoraxis ratios of 1.10, 1.30, and 1.50 .  it is shown that the maximumstresses and displacements increase significantly as the major tominor axis ratio is increased .
  flat, single-bay, skin stiffenerpanels with length-width ratios of 0.96were tested at a mach number of 3.0,at dynamic pressures ranging from 1,500 tostagnation temperatures from 300 f toeffects of thermal stress and buckling on theflutter of such panels .  the panelsupporting structure allowed partial thermalexpansion of the skins in both thelongitudinal and lateral directions .  panelskin material and skin thickness were varied .  a boundary faired through theexperimental flutter points consisted of aflat-panel portion, a buckled-panelportion, and a transition point, at theintersection of the two boundaries,where a panel is most susceptible to flutter .the flutter region consisted of twofairly distinct sections, a large-amplitudeflutter region and a small-amplitudeflutter region .  the results show that anincrease in panel skin temperatureflutter .  the flutter trend for buckledpanels is reversed .  use of a modifiedtemperature parameter, which approximatelyaccounts for the effects of differentialpressure and variations in panel skinmaterial and skin thickness, reduced thescatter in the data which resulted whenthese effects were neglected .  the resultsare compared with an exact theory forclamped panels for the condition of zeromidplane stress .  in addition, a twomode/transtability/ solution for clampedpanels is compared with the experimentallydetermined transition point .
during thermal fatigue testingof a specimen with a thin edge, orduring rapid temperature changes in the gasflow past turbine blades, the thinedges are deformed plastically in compressionduring heating and subsequentlycreep in tension as the bulk of the specimenor blade heats up . the plasticdeformation is determined from temperaturedistributions, which are calculatedby biot's variational method . the creepdeformation is determined as a functionof time by a differential equation, whichexpresses the balance between increasingelastic stress and reduction of stress dueto creep relaxation, and which is solvedto a riccati equation soluble interms of bessel functions, or (iii) by transformationto a second-order differentialequation with a periodic coefficient .using the thermal stresses obtained fromthe solution of the differential equation, the theoretical thermalfatigue enduranceis determined from cyclic (mechanical) stressendurance data . agreement betweentheoretical and experimental thermal fatigueendurances is obtained, over rangesof temperature, strain, and strain rate, or equivalently, over rangesof temperature-edge radius and heat transfer coefficient .this agreement supports the use ofthe theoretical methods in wider contexts .the accuracy of the temperaturedistributions is better than the accuracy ofother factors entering into the correlationbetween theoretical and experimental endurances .improvement in theinterpretation of experimental results requiresconsideration of the alterationof the stress  cycles during the course of thermalfatigue testing . this requirementis catered for partially by the various solutions of the differentialequation for thermal stress .
  this note gives a method for the derivation of suitable constantswhich, when multiplied by the readings recorded at each appropriateacceleration level on a fatigue load meter and then added together, givedirectly the proportion of fatigue life used up in the wing .  it issuggested that when the estimated proportion is of order 80, then a moredetailed assessment of fatigue life should be made .
  the problem of circumferentialbuckling of a thin circular cylindricalshell due to compressivehoop stresses which vary in the axialdirection is examined .  forextremely localised compressive hoop stressdistributions resulting fromthermal discontinuity effects, or from auniform, radial line loading,the buckle pattern should also belocalised .  simplified analysesinto these two types of problem areconsidered which show that onlya limited number of buckle deflectionmodes needs to be assumed .
  the flow of a compressible fluid past a sphere fixedin a uniform stream is calculated to the third order ofapproximation by means of the janzen-rayleigh method .the velocity and the pressure distributions over the surfaceof the sphere are computed and the terms involvingthe fourth power of the mach number, neglected in rayleigh'scalculation, are shown to be of considerable importance asthe local velocity of sound is approached on the sphere .the critical mach number, that is, the value of the machnumber at which the maximum velocity of the fluid past thesphere is just equal to the local velocity of sound, iscalculated for both the second and the third approximationsand is found to be, respectively, and .
  it was shown by raleigh (philos. mag. 32, 1 (1916))that the velocity potential for the subsonic flow of a compressiblefluid past a sphere can be expressed as a powerseries in terms of mach's number m (which is the ratio ofthe undisturbed velocity u, divided by the velocity of soundfor the undisturbed flow) .  the equation in question isand boundary conditions are prescribed forraleigh himself computed the first two terms of this series,.the author finds the third term .  he gives some graphsshowing numerical differences between raleigh's and hisapproximation .
the results of a preliminary experimental investigation to determine the feasibility of using the jet flap to improve the section characteristicsof an axial-flow compressor blade are presented and discussed trailing edge . internal design of the blade is described and detailsof the resulting jet flow are given . also included are wind-tunnel designand test procedures for the two-dimensional cascade used in thetest .test results are presented in the form of the measured turning angle,pressure rise, and lift coefficient . they are examined with particularreference to the prevention of rotating stall .
  control of flow separation by fluid injection at one divergingboundary of a two-dimensional, transparent-walled de lavalnozzle was investigated by spark schlieren photography of drynitrogen flows expanded from two stagnation temperaturesinjection conditions at the permeable boundary were varied bythe use of three grades of porous stainless steel with nominal porediameters of 10, 20, and 30 microns, through which nitrogen wasforced by coolant reservoir pressures of 25, 50, and 100 psig, inaddition to the case of no forced injection .  pressure distributionmeasurements were made along the nonpermeable divergingboundary .  it was found that flow separation at expansion ratiosapproaching the optimum value for maximum thrust coefficientcould be induced at the porous wall by a local injection massvelocity of the order of a few per cent of the local main-streammass velocity .  separation at the solid boundary was notnoticeably influenced by injection at the opposite wall, and theasymmetrical separation thus effected jet deflections of up to 10degrees at the lower stagnation-pressure levels .  variation of thewall heat-transfer condition by changing the stagnation temperaturedid not significantly influence separation behavior .  temperaturemeasurements at the reservoir face of the porous section,together with use of published correlations and of the rubesinanalysis for estimation of stream-side stanton numbers undernoninjection and injection conditions, respectively, permittedheat-transfer calculations which indicated that the effectivenessof the transpiration technique in controlling nozzle wall temperaturesderives primarily from intimate fluid-solid contact in aporous material of high specific surface .
  the characteristics of the position and form ofthe transition surface through the critical velocityare computed for flow through flat and round nozzlesfrom subsonic to supersonic velocity .  corresponding considerationswere carried out for the flow about profilesin the vicinity of sonic velocity .
  it is well-known that when the flow is everywhere subsonic in a fieldof flow, the nature of the two-dimensional isentropic flow of acompressible perfect fluid differs only slightly from that of thecorresponding flow of an incompressible perfect fluid .  thus, in such acase, we can calculate the field of flow by any of the well-knownmethods of approximation .  on the other hand, if the flow is supersonicthroughout the field, we can determine the flow pattern by the method ofcharacteristics .
  results are given of measurements in the compressed air tunnelof the forces on two cylinders, one of square cross-section and theother dodecagonal .  the tests were carried out at various reynoldsnumbers ranging from approximately 0.1 x 10 to 5.5 x 10, based onthe distance between parallel faces .
  a method is described for treatingsome of the characteristicallynon-linear problems of physics, inparticular those involving a non-linearpartial differential equation forwhich an approximate linearization ispermissible everywhere except in alimited region, such as the neighbourhoodof (5) a singular characteristicof the approximate solution, or ofapproximation is valueless .  themethod involves a transformation ofan independent variable, which isdetermined progressively with successiveapproximations to the solution ..only one step being necessary if afirst approximation valid uniformlybe obtained .  the method is mosteasily understood in its applicationto simple first order ordinarydifferential equations, which arestudied in detail in 2 and 3 as apreparation for the extension tomore complicated problems in 4, 5and 6 .  physically, the longestsection, 6, concerns the /spread/ ofa progressive wave at infinity,an important and essentially non-linearprocess .
  the author points out the relation of the integralto problems in astrophysics and quantum mechanics, andbecause of its importance supplies a table of values .  thetable gives rl(x) to seven places of decimals from x=0 tox=6.00 at intervals of 0.01 .  second order central differencesare tabulated to assist in interpolation .
the total lift responses of wings to sinusoidal gusts and to sinusoidalvertical oscillations are calculated from the response to gust penetrationand to a sudden change in sinking velocity through use of thewell-established reciprocal relations for unsteady flow . the casesconsidered are two-dimensional wings in incompressible, subsonic compressible,sonic, and supersonic flow,. elliptical and rectangular wings in incompressible flow,. wide rectangular and delta wings in supersonic flow,. and delta wings of vanishingly low aspect ratio in incompressibleand compressible flow . for most of the cases considered,closed-form expressions are given and the final results are presented in the form of plots of the square of the modulus of the lift coefficientfor wings in a sinusoidally oscillating gust and in the form of the real and imaginary parts of the lift component for wings undergoing sinusoidalsinking oscillations . a summary table is presented as a guide to the scope and results of this paper,. this table contains the figureand equation numbers for the types of flow and plan forms considered .
  an investigation to determinethe effects of camber on the aerodynamiccharacteristics of a seriesof rectangular wings having variousaspect ratios and thickness-to-chordratios was conducted in the amesthe transonic-bump method .the mach number range of theinvestigation was from 0.6 to 1.12, witha corresponding reynolds numberrange of 1.7 to 2.2 million .  the lift,drag, and pitching-moment dataare presented for wings having aspectratios of 4, 3, 2, 1.5, and 1,and naca 63a2xx and 63a4xx sections withthickness-to-chord ratios of
this paper illustrates the development and application of aninfluence-coefficient method of analysis for calculating the responseof a flexible wing in an airstream to an oscillating disturbing forceand for treating such aeroelastic instabilities as flutter and divergence.  aerodynamic coefficients are derived on the basis of liftingsurfacetheory for subsonic compressible flow by use of the method presentedin nasa technical report r-48 .application of the analysis is made to a uniform cantilever wingtiptank configuration for which responses to a sinusoidal disturbingforce and flutter speeds were measured over a range of subsonic machnumbers and densities .  calculated responses and flutter speeds basedon flexibility influence coefficients measured at nine stations are ingood agreement with experiment, provided the aerodynamic load is distributedover the wing so that local centers of pressure very nearlycoincide with these nine influence stations .  the use of experimentalvalues of bending and torsional structural damping coefficients in theanalysis generally improved the agreement between calculated andexperimental responses .  some calculations were made to study theeffects of density on responses near the flutter conditions, and linearresponse trends were obtained over a wide range of densities .
subsonic span loads and the resulting stability derivatives have beencalculated for a systematic series of vertical- and horizontal-tailcombinations in sideslip and in steady roll in order to provideinformation embracing a wide range of probable tail configurations . all calculations were made by application of the discrete-horseshoe-vortexmethod to the problem of estimating loads on intersecting surfaces . the investigation covered variations in vertical-tail aspect ratio, theratio of horizontal-tail aspect ratio to vertical-tail aspect ratio, the effects of horizontal-tail dihedral angle /for the sideslip case/, andthe effects of vertical position of the horizontal tail for surfaceshaving their quarter-chord lines swept back 0degrees and 45degrees . the results of the investigation are presented in charts from which thespan loads for the various conditions can be obtained . the resultingstability derivatives are presented as vertical- and horizontal-tailcontributions as well as total-tail-assembly derivatives .the results of this investigation, which was made for a wider range ofgeometric variables than previous studies, showed trends which were ingeneral agreement with the results of previous investigations . alsopresented in this paper and used in the computations is an extensivetable of values of sidewash due to a rectangular vortex .
a method for computing the steady-state span load distribution on anelastic airplane wing for specified airplane weights and load factors is given . the method is based on a modification of the weissinger lmethodand applies at subcritical mach numbers . it includes the effects of external stores and fuselage on the spanwise loading . modificationsare outlined for treating tail-boom and tailless airplane configurationsand for calculating the divergence dynamic pressure of aswept wing with a large external store . a method is also outlined forreducing wind-tunnel data to obtain effective aerodynamic coefficientswhich are free of model flexibility effects . the effects of mach number can readily be evaluated from the aerodynamic coefficients thus obtained.
  this paper presents a method of calculatingthe distribution of rate of heat transferinto a laminar incompressible boundary layerfrom the exterior surface of a long thincircular cylinder, when the surface of thecylinder is maintained at a constant temperatureand the flow is parallel to thecylinder axis,. the temperature differencebetween the surface and the main streamis taken to be small enough to neglectbuoyancy effects .  a series solution, validfor small downstream distances from thenose, has been obtained already by seban,bond, and kelly .  this is now extendedby deriving an asymptotic series solution,valid at large downstream distances, andbridging the gap between these two seriessolutions by an approximate solution,based on the method used recently by daviesand bourne to calculate heat transferfrom a flat plate .  the calculation is used todemonstrate the effect of curvatureand of prandtl number on the local rate of heattransfer at various downstreamdistances by comparing with the corresponding flat plate results .
the boundary layer equations for uniform flow parallel to the generators of any cylinder without corners are put into the form of a series oflinear third-order differential equations . the first three of these are the same as those obtained by seban and bond /1/ for a circular cylinderand solved by kelly /2/ . the rest have additional terms dependingon the radius of curvature of the cylinder and its derivatives . the problem is also attacked by a pohlhausen method as far as four terms of the series . for large distances from the front, rayleigh's method, asgiven by hasimoto /3/, gives the first two terms of an asymptoticexpansion for the drag . explicit calculations are made of the drag ofan elliptic cylinder of eccentricity 1/2 3 . there is evidence that thedrag is everywhere less than that of a circular cylinder of the sameperimeter .
the frictional force on a cylinder moving steadily parallel to itslength through a viscous liquid which is initially at rest is determined with reasonable accuracy over the whole range of values of the duration of the motion and for a wide variety of shapes of the cylinder crosssection. when the time t is small, the first approximation gives aforce per unit area which is the same as that for a flat plate of infinitewidth . the second approximation takes the shape of the cylinderinto account and the force on unit length of cylinder is determined interms of the number of corners, and their angles, in the cylinder crosslinder is the same, to this approximation, as that on a circular cylinderof the same perimeter . for large values of t the determination ofthe frictional force is reducible to that of a potential problem, thesolution of which is known for a number of different shapes . theapproximations for small and large values of t for any one cylinder donot overlap but can be joined without much ambiguity . for no value of t do the forces on cylinders of different shape /excluding those whosecurvature is not everywhere inwards/ differ by more than about 25 percent .
the motion of an incompressible viscous fluid generated by a cylinder of arbitrary cross-sectional form which is started to move suddenly fromrest with uniform velocity in the direction of its length is considered formulae in powers of are derived for the velocity distribution /validin the vicinity of the cylinder/ and for the frictional drag on the cylinder,correct to the order of a, where a is the characteristic lengthof the cross section, v is the kinematic viscosity, and t is the time .these formulae are given in terms of only the analytic function whichmaps conformally the region outside the cross section of the cylinderonto the region outside the unit circle, and of certain integrals ewhich are common to any arbitrary cylinder . in particular, when a issufficiently small, the total frictional drag on the cylinder per unitlength is expressed as, irrespective of the cross-sectional form, whereb 2 and y 0.5772.../euler's constant/ .
an estimate is given of the distribution of skin frictional force perunit length, and of displacement area, on the outside of a semi-infinite cylinder, of arbitrary cross-section, moving steadily in a directionparallel to its generators . a pohlhausen method is employed with avelocity distribution chosen to yield zero viscous retarding force onthe boundary layer approximations . /the smallness of the fluidacceleration far from the leading edge has been pointed out by batchelorreasonable results atlarge distances from the leading edge . however,for a large class of cross-sections, which includes all convex crosssectionsand locally concave cross-sections with re-entrant anglesgreater than 1/2, the method yields the expected square root growth ofthe boundary layer at the leading-edge, with a fairly close approximationto the coefficient, and it is supposed that the skin-frictionalforce and displacement area are given with reasonable accuracy along the whole length of the cylinder .results for the elliptic cylinder and the finite flat plate are given in closed form, valid for the whole length of the cylinder, and are expectedto be in error by at most 20 per cent . in addition, some estimateis given of the effect of corners on skin frictional force anddisplacement area .
  by using a karman-pohlhausen methodthe distribution of local rate of heattransfer is ovaluated for the case of air flowin an axisymmetrical laminar boundarylayer on a heated circular cylinder, the temperatureof the cylinder being independentof downstream distance .  this calculationserves to link the numerical valuesobtained by seban, bond, and kellyfor small downstream distances to those obtainedby bourne and davies for largedownstream distances .
a method is described for measuring the dynamic stability derivativesof a model airplane in a wind tunnel .  the characteristic featuresof this system are that single-degree-of-freedom oscillations wereused to obtain combinations of rolling, yawing and pitching motions.,that the oscillations were excited and controlled by velocity feedbackwhich permitted operation under conditions unfavorable for moreconventional types of oscillatory testing., and that data processing wasgreatly simplified by using analog computer elements in the strain-gagecircuitry .the system described is primarily for measurement of the dampingderivatives dampingin roll damping in pitch, damping in yaw, and the cross derivativesrolling moment due to yawing and yawing moment due to rolling .  themethod of testing also permits measurement under oscillatory conditionsof the static derivatives rolling moment due to sideslip, yawing momentdue to sideslip, and pitching moment due to angle of attack .  all thesederivatives are of particular importance in estimating the short-periodoscillatory motions of a rigid airplane .a small number of experimental data are included to illustrate thegeneral scope of results obtainable with this system .
  measurements have been made ofthe longitudinal characteristics of oneplane and three cambered slender ogeewings (p = 0.45,) at twosubsonic and eight supersonic machnumbers up to 2.8 .  the tests also includedmeasurements of the zero-lift pressuredrag and support interference of theplane wing .  the results have been analysedto give data for estimating theperformance of supersonic transport aircraft .
the first part of the paper deals with the low speed aerodynamics ofaircraft shapes suggested by kuchemann, at the second internationalcongress in aeronautical sciences at zurich in 1960, as suitable forachieving a required range at supersonic speeds, namely wingbodyarrangements with sweepback angles of 55degrees or 60degrees andstreamwise thickness-chord ratio of about 5 per cent suitable for lowsupersonic speed, and slender near-triangular wings with sharp leadingedges suitable for mach numbers of about 2 or more .no attention is given to /slewed/ wings, powered lift or variable geometry.in dealing briefly with swept wings, the need for avoiding separation of flow from the leading edge is demonstrated, with the conclusion that it is desirable to use leading edge flaps with blowing or suction at theknee together with blown trailing edge flaps . wind tunnel tests aredescribed on a simplified model with these boundary layer controlmethods applied . mention is made of the possibility of adverse groundeffect on maximum lift .more attention is given to the case of slender wings because their useinvolves a new type of flow with separation from all edges . this flowand its steadiness are therefore discussed from the point of view ofthe possibility of buffeting,. the effect of plan form on staticlongitudinal stability and pitch-up is analysed,. and a short summary of available results on damping in pitch is given . large rolling momentsdue to sideslip are shown to give rise to serious problems of control,and the present state of knowledge of static lateral and directionalstability and rolling and yawing rotary derivatives is discussed .finally the effects of proximity to the ground are summarised .the second part of the paper is concerned with work aimed at clarifyingsome of the requirements for handling qualities of future aircraft . itis not so much concerned with forecasts of the dynamic behaviour ofthese future aircraft as with determining what the pilot wants .two aspects of control in the vertical plane are discussed in somedetail namely speed control and glide path holding . flight tests on anavro 707a aircraft, with artificially worsened characteristics, are described,and it is shown that substantially constant performance in thepiloting task can be achieved at the expense of increased pilot effort . some tentative conclusions on desirable levels of speed stability andphugoid damping are, nevertheless, drawn .a brief review of the present status of lateral/directional handlingrequirements, using mainly american data, is also included .
the development of the flow pattern on a swept wing with incidence andstream mach number is described . the wing, of aspect ratio 2 828,taper ratio 0 333 and leading-edge sweep 53 5 deg, was tested at machnumbers between 0 6 and 1 6 at incidences up to about 12 deg . the testreynolds number varied with mach number, being typically 2 3 x 10 at mleading edge .it is shown that the flow pattern at moderate incidences developssmoothly from a subsonic type involving leading-edge separation to asupersonic type where the flow is attached near the leading edge andwith shock-induced separation further aft . the formation and movementof the shock-wave system and the vortices near the wing surface arebriefly discussed .
the development of the flow pattern on a wing of aspect ratio 2 828,taper ratio 0 333, leading-edge sweepback 53 5 deg and 6 per centthickness/chord ratio in the streamwise direction has been described inpart 1, which discussed oil-flow patterns obtained on the surface of the wing . the complete programme of tests also included pressure plottingat four spanwise stations and force measurements . these are discussedin relation to the flow development in this part of the report .the wing was tested at mach numbers between 0 6 and 1 6 for incidencesup to about 14 deg . the tunnel stagnation pressure was held constant ata value near atmospheric pressure during the tests, so that the reynolds number varied with mach number .. at m 1 0 it was 2 3 x 10 based on the mean aerodynamic chord . boundary-layer transition was fixed by aroughness band at the leading edge .a detailed analysis has been made of the pressure distributions on thesurface of the wing and the chordwise distributions integrated todetermine the spanwise loading . the overall lift and pitching moment of the wing were also obtained from these data, as well as from directmeasurements using a strain-gauge balance, by means of which the wingdrag was also determined . these results are considered in some detailto illustrate the effects of mach number and incidence on the flow about the model . a preliminary analysis is also made of the conditions forboundary-layer separation due to shock waves on the wing surface . theprincipal factor appears to be the component of mach number normal tothe shock front .
a brief description of the slotted liners used is given together withthe power requirements and some flow surveys .some observations are made on wall interference on a half-model of aswept wing tested in the wind tunnel .
distributed roughness bands of no.320 and no.500 carborundum were foundto be effective in causing boundary-layer transition if they extendedover the first 5( and 10( respectively of the local chord . use oflarger grain sizes, or increases in the band width for a given grainsize resulted in a drag penalty . with very large particle sizes /aboutbetween the particles . the drag penalty was constant over the test mach number range /0.80 to 1.15/ and decreased slowly with incidence . thewing lift and pitching moment were only slightly modified by thepresence of any of the roughness bands tested, but this result would not of course necessarily apply to wings of other planforms or sectionshapes . the test reynolds number was about 2.7 million .in the appendix, the structure of the roughness bands is discussed, aswell as the details of the materials used and the techniques used toapply the band .
summary . an investigation has been made in the n.p.l. 18 in. x 14 in .tunnel of the effects of leading-edge modifications on the flow andforces on an untapered wing of 50 deg leading-edge sweep, at stream mach numbers between 0 60 and 1 20 . seven leading-edge profiles weretested, ranging from a drooped extension of 18 per cent of the chord ofthe basic sharp-nosed section to a round-nosed section with a leadingedgeradius of 1 0 per cent of the basic chord .leading-edge droop was found to increase the wing drag near zero liftbut to reduce appreciably the lift-dependent drag component, except atthe highest test mach numbers . droop also increased the lift coefficientat which leading-edge separation occurred on the upper surfaceat moderate subsonic speeds, but in addition reduced the mach number for transonic flow attachment . the appearance of the forward shock /butnot the rear shock/ is considerably delayed when the leading edge isdrooped .with the undrooped sections an increase in leading-edge radius wasaccompanied by successively earlier appearances of the forward shock,and hence the outboard shock with its attendant separation . the conditionsat which the rear shock first appeared changed only slowly as thesection was changed .the variations in wing flow pattern as the leading edge is modified arediscussed and related to measured changes in the wing lift and drag .an attempt is also made to estimate the local mach numbers on some parts of the wing from the oil-flow patterns,. this material is used toassess the flow conditions appropriate to shock-induced separation .the main section of the report concludes with a tentative discussion ofthe significance of the present results to the design of swept wings .in an appendix results obtained with the wing in a sweptforward configurationare briefly considered .
the interaction between shock waves and boundary layers has importanteffects in many problems of high-speed flow . this paper has been writtenas a guide to the literature on the subject, and as a criticalreview of the present state of knowledge concerning both the underlyingphysical processes and the practical applications . it will be clear tothe reader that, although substantial progress has been made, our knowledgeis still far from complete and that more work both of a fundamentalnature and on specific applications is needed before the problemis understood sufficiently well for design purposes .part i of the paper describes experiments on comparatively simple typesof flow designed to provide fundamental information and to assist in the development of the theory . these experiments show that the interaction depends mainly on the mach and reynolds numbers and on the strength ofthe shock wave . in particular, the interaction of a shock wave with alaminar boundary layer is shown to produce much larger effects than ifthe boundary layer is turbulent . for most cases where the effects ofthe interaction are large enough to have serious practical consequencesit is found that the boundary layer separates from the surface, and thedifference between the interaction with laminar and turbulent layersarises mainly because the laminar layer separates much more readily inan adverse pressure gradient . the details of the interaction downstream of the separation point thus depend critically on the behaviour of theseparated layer, and on the conditions under which it reattaches to thesurface .many of the features found in the fundamental experiments appear also in practical applications and these are considered in parts ii and iii ofthe paper . although the emphasis hero is on the performance of aerfoilsand wings moving at high subsonic speeds, the importance of theinteraction in other examples such as at supersonic trailing edges andin supersonic intakes is also discussed briefly . the differences betweenthe interaction with laminar and turbulent boundary layers areoften a source of serious discrepancy between model experiments andfull-scale conditions . for small-scale models it is, therefore, frequentlyessential to make the boundary layer turbulent by artificialmeans . some of the difficulties involved in doing this, and certain ofthe more promising methods are briefly discussed . it is shown thatexperiments on models with transition fixed can be used to explain anumber of aerodynamic effects encountered in transonic flight, andconnected with the occurrence of shock-induced separation of the turbulentboundary layers . for both two-dimensional aerofoils and straight and sweptback wings, turbulent separation occurs for shocks above acertain strength which applies for both model and full-scale conditionsfull-scale conditions,. differences in magnitude would be expected ifthe pressure recovery along the separated layer between the shock andthe trailing edge is affected by reynolds number, but little information is at present available on this point .most of the repercussions of turbulent separation on the steady-motioncharacteristics of aerofoils and wings can be traced to the associatedreduction in the pressure recovery over the roar of the surface . thisis because the pressure at the trailing edge controls the inter-relation between the two surfaces /so long as the flow at the trailing edgeremains subsonic/, and in particular the relative movements of the shock waves and the extents of the local regions of supersonic flow . certain unsteady-flow characteristics such as buffeting and control surfaceseparation .some evidence is presented on the influence of section shape on theoccurrence and effects of separation, but in this, as in many otherrespects, information relevant to turbulent boundary layers is scarce .some notes on the further work which is required are given in part iv of the paper .
in the high-speed research on two-dimensional aerofoils at the nationalphysical laboratory the need to keep model size above a certain minimum, in order to reproduce correctly the boundary layer separation effectsexperienced at full scale, has been considered paramount even at therisk of incurring significant tunnel interference effects .this report discusses the interference effects for the slotted workingsections now in use . the magnitudes of the blockage and lift effectcorrections are deduced for the ratio of model chord to tunnel heightnormally used . it is shown that a simple adaptation to reduce the openarea of the walls would reduce both corrections to insignificant proportionssimultaneously, but would give a reduced choking mach numberseparated flows . the observed trends in the variation of the blockageeffects for other ratios of model chord to tunnel height differ fromthose predicted theoretically, and so the results cannot be applied more generally until these trends have been checked by further investigations.it is suggested that wake interference effects can significantly influencethe manner in which separated flows develop with increasingincidence or mach number, particularly for walls of small open area .examples are also given of effects of distortions in the local supersonicflow, which are most noticeable for walls with relatively largeopen areas .
tests have been made in three n.p.l. wind tunnels on a pressure-plotting model consisting of a long cylinder with a hemispherical nose . thesurface pressure distributions were measured for stream mach numbersbetween 0.7 and 1.1 at zero model incidence, and schlieren photographswere taken . the blockage ratios were 0.211(, 0.117( and 0.120( .the principal feature of the flow is the effect of working section sizeon the rate at which the terminal shock wave moves back along the modelwith increasing stream mach number . this is thought to depend mainlyon the distance from the model to the slotted walls of the tunnel,and not necessarily on the blockage ratio . the distance of the solidsidewall is important in influencing the local mach number ahead of theterminal shock, by reflecting the expansion-wave system originating near the model nose .
  this report describes an experimental investigation of the equivalencerelationship and the related theory for lifting forces proposed by transonicslender-body theory .  the models chosen for this study are aflat, winglike, elliptic cone-cylinder and its equivalent body ofrevolution, a circular cone-cylinder .  it is determined that the flowsabout the two models are closely related in the manner predicted by thetheory, the relationship persisting over a mach number range of 0.92 tocone-cylinder vary linearly only over the small angle-of-attack range ofapproximately 1 and that the aerodynamic loading at sonic speed comparesfavorably with jones' slender-wing theory .  the results of the investigation suggest that at transonic speeds andat small angles of attack the calculation of all aerodynamiccharacteristics of slender, three-dimensional shapes can be made by useof transonic slender-body theory when the pressures on the equivalentbody of revolution are known, either by experiment, or by an adequatenonlinear theory .  from transonic slender-body theory it is deducedthat the slenderness required for this application is the same as thatrequired for the successful application of the transonic area rule .
a theory is developed of the supersonic flow past a body of revolutionat large distances from the axis, where a linearized approximation isvalueless owing to the divergence of the characteristics at infinity .it is used to find the asymptotic forms of the equations of the shockswhich are formed from the neighbourhoods of the nose and tail .  in thespecial case of a slender pointed body, the general theory at largedistances is used to modify the linearized approximation to give atheory which is uniformly valid at all distances from the axis .  theresults which are of physical importance are summarized in theconclusion (9) and compared with the results of experimentalobservations .
  the position and strength of the front shock wave at largedistances from a wing-body combination, are deduced from the lineartheory for the combination, using a method developed by whitham .  thecombination consists of a body of revolution and a wing which hasthickness and is lifting .  the effects of interference between the flowover the body and the flow over the wing are included .  in anydirection the flow far from the wing-body combination is equivalent tothe flow past a body of revolution determined from the configuration ofthe combination .  the modified formulae for unsteady flow are given andsome results are evaluated for the combination of a body of revolutionand a delta wing with subsonic leading edges .
  the /sonic boom/ as it is now popularly called, has become thecenter of considerable interest during the past few years because ofwidespread public disturbance and possible damage that can resultfrom it .  in the hopes of minimizing this disturbance and to extendthe general knowledge of the shock waves which produce the boomingnoise, the aeronautical research laboratory, wright air developmentcenter, has initiated an extensive research program to study the sonicboom phenomenon .  this report presents the results of flight tests undertaken as onephase of this program .  the tests had as their objective the determinationand measurement of the shock wave pressure pattern surroundingan f-100 aircraft in level supersonic flight .  the flight tests were conducted at the air force flight test center,edwards air force base, california, under the authority of airresearch and development command test directive no. 5524-f1 .
  time histories of noise pressures near ground level were measuredduring flight tests of fighter-type airplanes over fairly flat, partlywooded terrain in the mach number range between 1.13 and 1.4 and ataltitudes from 25,000 to 45,000 feet .  atmospheric soundings and radartrackingstudies were made for correlation with the measured noisedata .  the measured and calculated values of the pressure rise across theshock wave were generally in good agreement .  there is a tendency forthe theory to overestimate the pressure at locations remote from thetrack and to underestimate the pressures for conditions of high tailwindat altitude .  the measured values of ground-reflection factor averagedabout 1.8 for the surfaces tested as compared to a theoretical valueof 2.0 .  two booms were measured in all cases .  the observers alsogenerally reported two booms,. although, in some cases, only one boomwas reported .  the shock-wave noise associated with some of the flighttests was judged to be objectionable by ground observers, and in onecase the cracking of a plate-glass store window was correlated in timewith the passage of the airplane at an altitude of 25,000 feet .
  the intensity of shock-wave noise at the ground resulting fromflights at mach numbers to 2.0 and altitudes to 60,000 feet wasmeasured .  measurements near the ground track for flights of asupersonic fighter and one flight of a supersonic bomber are presented.  level cruising flight at an altitude of 60,000 feet and a machnumber of 2.0 produced sonic booms which were considered to betolerable, and it is reasonable to expect that cruising flight at higheraltitudes will produce booms of tolerable intensity for airplanes of thesize and weight of the test airplanes .  the measured variation ofsonic-boom intensity with altitude was in good agreement with thevariation calculated by an equation given in nasa technical note d-48 .  the effect of mach number on the ground overpressure is small betweenmach numbers of 1.4 and 2.0, a result in agreement with the theory .  noamplification of the shock-wave overpressures due to refraction effectswas apparent near the cutoff mach number .  a method for estimating the effect of flight-path angle on cutoffmach number is shown .  experimental results indicate agreement with themethod, since a climb maneuver produced booms of a much decreased intensityas compared with the intensity of those measured in level flight atabout the same altitude and mach number .  comparison of sound pressure levels for the fighter and bomber airplanesindicated little effect of either airplane size or weight at analtitude of 40,000 feet .
  shock-wave ground-pressure measurementshave been made for supersonicbomber airplanes in the mach numberrange from 1.24 to 1.52, foraltitudes from about 30,000 to 50,000 feet,and for a gross-weight rangefrom about 83,000 to 120,000 pounds .  themeasured overpressures weregenerally higher than would be predictedby the theory which accountsonly for volume effects .  there is thusa suggestion that lift effectson sonic-boom intensity may be significantfor this type of airplanefor the altitude range of the present tests .
  an investigation of some aspectsof the sonic boom has been madewith the aid of wind-tunnel measurementsof the pressure distributionsabout bodies of various shapes .  thetests were made in the langleyat a mach number of 2.01 andat a reynolds number per foot of 2.5 x 10 .measurements of the pressurefield were made at orifices in the surfaceof a boundary-layer bypassplate .  the models which represented bothfuselage and wing types ofthickness distributions were small enoughto allow measurements as faraway as 8 body lengths or 64 chords .  theresults are compared withestimates made using existing theory .  to the first order, the boom-producingpressure rise across the bowshock is dependent on the longitudinaldevelopment of body area and noton local details .  nonaxisymmetrical shapesmay be replaced by equivalentbodies of revolution to obtain satisfactorytheoretical estimatesof the far-field pressures .
  an investigation of the effectof lift on sonic-boom intensity hasbeen performed by means of wind-tunnelmeasurements of the pressure fieldssurrounding small wing-body combinations .the tests were conducted inthe langley 4- by 4-foot supersonicpressure tunnel at a mach number ofper foot .  effects of lift werefound to be real and significant .measured bow-shock intensities agreedfairly well with, but were consistentlyless than, shock intensitiesestimated by theoretical methods .available flight data were examinedfor correlation with wind-tunnel testresults .
  data are presented which providean insight into the nature of theshock-wave noise problem, the significantvariables involved, and themanner in which airplane operationmay be affected .  flight-test dataare also given, and a comparison withthe available theory is made .  anattempt is also made to correlate thesubjective reactions of observersand some associated physical phenomenawith the pressure amplitudesduring full-scale flight .  it is indicated that for the proposedsupersonic transport airplanesof the future, booms on the ground willmost probably be experiencedduring the major portion of the flightplan .  the boom pressures will bemost severe during the climb and descentphases of the flight plan .during the cruise phase of the flight,the boom pressures are of muchlesser intensity but are spread laterallyfor many miles .  the mannerin which the airplane is operated appearsto be significant,. for example,the boom pressures during the climb,cruise, and descent phases can beminimized by operating the airplane atits maximum altitude consistentwith its performance capabilities .
  this paper is a brief summary ofan investigation made to check the effect of lifton the shock noise of aircraft flying at supersonicspeeds .  the method of hayes has beencombined with the theory of whitham topredict the asymptotic shock strength of wingscarrying lift and of combinations of bodiesand lifting wings .  (a similar, but not quite asgeneral, method was derived by walkden inref. 6 .)  whitham's formula, including only thevolume term, has been used extensively to predictthe boom intensity of aeroplane type bodiesand the agreement with experiment has, so far,been quite reasonable .  the test data obtainedto date extends only up to about 40,000 ft.altitude and the calculations of this paper showthat under those conditions the shock noise ofthe aircraft tested so far will, in most cases,be dominated by the volume term .  it is shownthat at higher altitudes lifting effects willdominate for even the small fighter and they willdominate over most of the altitude rangefor large bomber and supersonic transportaircraft .  the boom intensity due to lift decreaseswith altitude as which compares toin the volume case (=pressure ataltitude h) .  it is insensitive to mach number,wing loading, wing plan shape andlift distribution .  a simple rule for calculatingthe shock noise due to combined volume andlifting effects is proposed which is applicable toconfigurations with wings located towards therear of the fuselage .  the rule states that the shocknoise of an aircraft carrying lift is equalto the shock noise due to volume (neglecting lift)or the shock noise due to lift (neglectingvolume), whichever is the greater .  a chart ispresented from which rapid estimates can bemade of the shock noise of liftingwing-body combinations .
  a fineness-ratio-2.71 right circular cylinder and a fineness-ratiobeentested in free flight over a mach number range of 0.35 to 2.15 anda reynolds number range of 1 x 10 to 12 x 10 .  time histories, crossplots of force coefficients, rolling velocity, and longitudinal-forcecoefficient are presented for both cylinders .  in addition, cross plotsof moment coefficients and plots of the normal-force curve slope andthe aerodynamic center are presented for the fineness-ratio-2.71cylinder .  the average aerodynamic center of the right circularcylinder moved rearward with decreasing speeds until at the subsonicmach numbers it remained approximately constant and comparisons of thedrag data of this test with wind tunnel and other free-flight data showgood agreement .  an appreciable decrease in drag was observed when thedata of the present test of the rounded nose cylinder were compared withdata of a right circular cylinder of a similar configuration .
  the linearized equations of motion have been derived for a rollingmissile having slight aerodynamic asymmetries .  time histories ofrolling-missile motions referred to a body-axis system have been preparedto show the types of missile motions that can be encountered .the motions resulting from a trim change and a pulse-rocket disturbanceare shown to be determined mainly by the ratio of rolling velocity topitching frequency .  finally, the derived equations are used in establishing a techniquefor the reduction of rolling-missile oscillation data .  it is shownthat the aerodynamic derivatives can be obtained from flight data iffour accelerations are measured .  the method is applied to the resultsobtained from a flight test of a missile configuration .
  the aerodynamic stability derivatives due to pitching velocity andvertical acceleration are calculated by use of potential theory for circularcones traveling at supersonic speeds .  the analysis is based ontwo theoretical techniques used successfully previously in applicationto the case of uniform axial and inclined flow .  in the first,potential solutions for axial flow and crossflow are derived from thefirst-order wave equation but in application to calculations for theforces no approximations are made either to the tangency condition orto the isentropic pressure relation .  the second method consists incombining the first-order crossflow potential with an axial-flowpotential correct to second order .  closed-form solutions by bothmethods are found for a cone, and numerical results for the stabilityderivatives are presented as a function of mach number for cones havingsemivertex angles of 10 and 20 .  in addition, expressions for the forces, moments, and stabilityderivatives of arbitrary bodies of revolution are obtained usingnewtonian impact theory .  numerical results for cones compare wellwith those obtained from the combined first- and second-order potentialtheory at the highest mach number for which the latter theory isapplicable .
  several blunt bodies having shapes that may be suitable for atmosphericreentry vehicles were tested to determine the aerodynamic characteristicsof such shapes for angles of attack up to 34 .  the testswere conducted through the transonic mach number range and at reynoldsnumbers from 1.74 x 10 to 2.78 x 10, based on body diameter .  a full-skirted rather than a short-skirted type of shape developedthe greatest amount of static stability and the largest lift-curveslopes .  the angle of attack for maximum lift for such bodies appearsto be subject to mach number effects .  spinning a full-skirted bodyabout its longitudinal axis generally increased the lift and reduced thepitching moment at angles of attack and reduced the aerodynamic staticstability parameter through the transonic mach number range .  the extensionof segmented clamshell-shaped flaps from the afterbody of ashort-skirted model served to increase the lift and static stabilityonly if the flaps extended into the airstream .  some evidence was found of oscillatory base pressures on two dissimilarshapes at certain high angles of attack and the highest machnumber in these tests .  there is doubt, however, that these pressurescan induce any significant oscillatory motion for a reentry vehiclebecause of their small amplitude and phasing .
  a number of blunt bodies having shapes that may be suitable foratmospheric reentry were tested to determine the lift, drag, andpitching-moment characteristics at a mach number of 3.11 and a reynoldsnumber of 6 x 10 based on maximum body diameter of 2 inches .  the results of the tests showed that all the bodies were staticallystable about a point located one-third of the body length from thenose .  the results also showed that high-drag bodies which have a largeportion of their afterbodies negatively sloped (decrease in crosssectionalarea from nose to base) may have a negative lift-curve slope .this negative slope results from the large negative lift component ofthe axial force obtained with those bodies and the fact that withnegatively sloped afterbodies only small normal forces are developed .
  this paper will be concerned with some properties of thestress-strain law for work hardening materials introduced by w. pragerincremental strain or plastic flow law by which it is meant that thedifferentials of strain are expressed as functions of the stresses,strains, and differentials of the stress .  we shall also have occasionto refer to total strain or plastic deformation laws, in which thestrains are given directly as functions of the stress .
  the stresses and displacements in a partly plastic, infinitelylong, hollow cylinder are obtained according to theflow type of stress-strain law of prandtl-reuss and to thedeformation law of hencky .  in both cases the mises yieldcondition is used and the compressibility of the material istaken into account .  it is shown that under these assumptionsthe two theories yield substantially the same resultsfor this particular problem, but that one theory orthe other may be preferable for computing purposes incertain cases .  the results are compared with those ofother investigations in which different combinations ofstress-strain law, yield condition, compressibility, and endloading were assumed .
the stresses in the plastic range around a normally loaded circular holein an infinite sheet are found numerically on the basis of bothdeformation and incremental theories .  the results of deformationtheory are quantitatively assessed in the light of a criterion, recentlydeveloped by budiansky, for the acceptability of deformation theories .the criterion is completely satisfied .  moreover, the results obtainedby using these two different theories of plasticity do not differgreatly despite the fact that the stress paths are far from beingradial .
  the theory for the plastic buckling of columns which appearsfinally to have achieved a satisfactory form, rests upon the wellestablisheduniaxial stress-strain relation .  the development ofa correspondingly satisfactory theory for the plastic buckling ofplates has been hampered by the nonexistence of an establishedpolyaxial stress-strain relation in the plastic range .  present theories for the polyaxial stress-strain relation beyondthe elastic range can be divided into two types, often called flowand deformation theories .  theories of plastic buckling based ondeformation theories are in better agreement with experimentthan those based on flow theories .  on the other hand, tests inwhich a material is compressed into the plastic range and thensubjected to shear at constant compressive stress are in betteragreement with flow than with deformation theories .  legitimatedoubt therefore has existed as to the validity of any theory forthe plastic buckling of plates .  as a result of studying these apparent contradictions, a newtheory of plasticity has been developed which is of neither theflow nor the deformation type .  it is based upon the concept ofslip, and its formulation was guided more by physical, and lessby mathematical, considerations than previous theories .  experimentalevidence of limited scope but of crucial character is inbetter agreement with the new theory than with either flow ordeformation theories .  the new theory accounts for the apparentcontradictions previously alluded to and justifies the use of deformationtheory in the analysis of the plastic buckling of plates .
  the action of a column in the plastic range is analyzed on thebasis that bending may proceed simultaneously with increasingaxial load .  this leads to a new column formula that includesboth the tangent-modulus (engesser) and the reduced-modulusthe tangent-modulus load and that the column load increaseswith increasing lateral deflection, approaching the reducedmodulusload as a limit if the tangent modulus is assumed toremain constant .
  von karman and tsien have shown that under elasticconditions the resistance of perfect thin cylinders subjectedto axial compression drops precipitously after buckling.  it is considered that this indicates that this type ofbuckling is very sensitive to imperfections or disturbances .in this paper the effects of certain imperfections of shapeturbances combined) are studied by the large-deflectionshell theory developed in a previous paper (2) .  it is found that two types of buckling failure may occur .one is of a purely elastic type which occurs when the peakof the average stress versus average strain curve is reached,while the other type is precipitated by yielding, which forthicker cylinders or lower-yield material may occur beforesuch a peak is reached .  curves are derived giving the dependenceof each type of failure upon the dimensions andelastic and yield properties of the specimen and also uponan /unevenness factor/ u which determines the magnitudeof the initial imperfections and is assumed to dependon the method of fabrication .  the relations derived are inline with test results, and similar studies of the bucklingof struts indicate that the magnitude of the initial imperfectionswhich have to be assumed to explain test strengthsare reasonable .
  the torsional buckling strength of a cylinder in the plasticrange has been determined .  an energy solution and a more exactsolution, both based on a plastic stress-strain relationship givenby the simple deformation theory, are presented .  close agreementbetween the two solutions is found .  the effects of largedeflections and imperfections on buckling strength are analyzed .for two groups of experimental results used for comparison, theeffects of geometrical imperfections in the plastic range arenegligible .  the theoretical results are found to be in good agreementwith the experimental results .
  simple models are employed to bring out the large and importantdifferences between buckling in the plastic range andclassical elastic instability .  static and kinetic criteria are comparedand their interrelation discussed .  nonlinear behavior inparticular is often found to be the key to the physically validsolution .  the nonconservative nature of plastic deformation initself or in combination with the nonlinearity requires conceptsnot found in classical approaches .  conversely, the classicallinearized condition of neutral equilibrium is really not relevantin inelastic buckling .  plastic buckling loads are not uniquelydefined but cover a range of values and are often more properlythought of as maximum loads for some reasonable initial imperfectionin geometry or dynamic disturbance .  the models indicate that basically the same information isobtained from essentially static systems by assuming initial imperfectionin geometric forms as by assuming dynamic disturbances.  one approach complements the other and both are helpfulin obtaining an understanding of the physical phenomena .
  a most troublesome paradox has existed for a number of yearswith respect to buckling in the plastic range .  theoretical considerationsand all direct experimental evidence show conclusivelythat an incremental or flow type of mathematical theoryof plasticity is valid .  however, the results of plastic bucklingtests are well correlated by a simple total or deformation theoryand bear no resemblance to published predictions of incrementaltheory .  the suggestion was made that initial imperfections of shapeor loading might well explain this most peculiar result .  however,subsequent investigations by several authors seem to havegiven the impression that excessively large imperfections wouldbe needed and that the answer would be overly sensitive to themagnitude of such imperfections .  it is the purpose of this paper to demonstrate that extremelysmall, and therefore unavoidable, imperfections of shape do accountfor the paradox in a simple manner .  the buckling load isshown to be extremely insensitive to the amount of imperfection .the example chosen is a simplified version of the long rectangularplate hinged along one edge and free on the other under uniformcompressive stress at the ends .  this is the equivalent ofthe case of the cruciform column, which has been so disturbingin the past because incremental theory applied to a perfect cruciformcolumn did lead to an entirely incorrect result .
  a theory has been developed for small bending and stretching ofsandwich-type shells .  this theory is an extension of the known theoryof homogeneous thin elastic shells .  it was found that two effects areimportant in the present problem, which have not been consideredpreviously in the theory of curved shells ..  (1) the effect of transverseshear deformation and (2) the effect of transverse normal stressdeformation .  the first of these two effects has been known to be ofimportance in the theory of plates and beams .  the second effect wasfound to occur in a manner which is typical for shells and has nocounterpart in flat-plate theory .  the general results of this report have been applied to thesolution of problems concerning flat plates, circular rings, circularcylindrical shells, and spherical shells .  in each case numericalexamples have been given, illustrating the magnitude of the effectsof transverse shear and normal stress deformation .  the results of this investigation indicate the necessity oftaking account of transverse shear and normal stress in sandwich-typeshells, as soon as there is an order-of-magnitude difference betweenthe elastic constants of the core layer and of the face layers of thecomposite shell .  it was found that the changes due to transverseshear and normal stress deformation in the core may be so large as tobe no mere corrections to the results of the theory without transversecore flexibility .  the actual magnitude of the changes is greatly dependent on thegeometry and loading condition of the structure under considerationso that no general rules may be given which indicate for which elasticmodulus ratio the changes begin to be significant .  solutions of problems in the present theory may in general beobtained by mathematical methods which are similar to those employedin the theory of plates and shells without the effect of transverseshear and normal stress deformation included .  the present work doesnot include consideration of buckling and finite deflection effects .
  a shallow spherical dome subjected to lateral pressure is a structurefor which the deformation departs appreciably from the linear theory atrelatively small values of the deflection amplitude .  it is also onefor which the buckling process is characterized by a rapid decrease inthe equilibrium load once the buckling load has been surpassed .  forstructures having this type of buckling characteristics the questionarises as to whether the proper buckling criterion to apply is theclassical criterion, which considers equilibrium with respect toinfinitesimal displacements, or the finite-displacement /energycriterion/ proposed by tsien .  in this paper the problem of the finite displacement and bucklingof a shallow spherical dome is investigated both theoretically andexperimentally .  in the theoretical approach the nonlinear equationsare converted into a sequence of linear equations by expanding all ofthe variables in powers of the center deflection and then equating thecoefficients of equal powers .  the basic parameter for the shallow domeis proportional to the ratio of the central height of the dome h to itsthickness t .  for small values of this ratio the expansions convergerapidly and enough terms are computed to determine the buckling loadaccording to the classical criterion .  for higher values of h t, convergencedeteriorates rapidly and it was not possible to determine thebuckling load with the number of terms which were computed .  howevereven for these higher values of h t the deflection shapes are determinedfor deflection amplitudes below the amplitude at which buckling occurs .these deflection shapes are characterized by their rapid change as h tincreases and by the fact that, over most of the range of h t studied,the maximum deflection does not occur at the center of the dome .  experimental results seem to indicate that the classical criterionof buckling is applicable to very shallow spherical domes for which thetheoretical calculation was made .  a transition to energy criterion forhigher domes is also indicated .
  the purpose of the present paper is to derive a system ofequations which can be used for the analysis of shallow segments ofthin, elastic, spherical shells .  a segment will be called shallow ifthe ratio of its height to base diameter is less than, say .  theresults obtained on the basis of this assumption will often also beapplicable to shells which are not shallow, namely then, when the loadsare such that the stresses are effectively restricted to shallow zones .  the problem of the spherical elastic shell has been the subject ofnumerous researches .  for the rotationally symmetric case thefundamental results were obtained in 1912 (1) and have been the startingpoint of many applications .  while it is possible to deduce from theseresults approximate equations equivalent to part of what follows, it isbelieved that the present approach to the problem of the shallow shellmay be of some interest even for rotationally symmetric cases .  a number of investigations have been concerned with the shell loadedin a non-rotationally symmetric manner (2,3,4) .  in its general formthis problem is quite difficult and the results so far obtained are noteasy to apply .  restricting attention to the shallow shell in themanner of the present paper brings with it a very considerablesimplification of the analysis .
  in this paper a theoretical solution is developed for thetorsion on a round thin-walled tube for which the wallsbecome unstable .  the results of this theory are given bya few simple formulas and curves which cover all cases .the differential equations of equilibrium are derived in asimpler form than previously found, it being shown thatmany items can be neglected .  the solution obtained islength ratio is zero and infinite, and is a good approximationfor intermediate cases .  the theory is comparedwith all available experiments, including about 50 testsmade by the author .  the experimental-failure torque isalways smaller than the theoretical-buckling torque, averagingabout 75 percent of it, with a minimum of 60 percent.  as the form of the deflection checks closely withthat predicted by theory and the experiments cover a greatrange of shapes and materials, this discrepancy can reasonablybe ascribed largely to initial eccentricities inactual tubes .
  the equations obtained by chien for the nonlinear deflectionof shallow spherical shells under uniform external pressure aresolved by means of power series expansions, following proceduresintroduced by friedrichs and stoker in their treatment of bucklingof circular plates .  these equations depend upon two parameters.  one of these parameters is related to the external pressure,while the other depends upon the dimensions of the shell .the equations are solved for several ranges of the parametersunder boundary conditions corresponding to a fixed edge .  the solution, carried out numerically on the aec univacat new york university, yields a complete description of thestresses and deflections as functions of the polar angle over awide range of values of the loading parameter and the dimensionalparameter .  prediction of the upper buckling load is thenmade by means of a numerical criterion based on the load vs.deflection curve .  for some cases, the postbuckling behavioris investigated .  the results agree well with existing experimentaland theoretical studies and cover a wide range of casesnot previously treated .
a formula for the initial buckling loads for clamped, shallow sphericalshells under uniform external pressure is obtained by combining thesolutions of two linearized versions of the original nonlinear problem .one of these versions is a linear eigenvalue problem while the other isthe bending problem for a shallow cap in the linear theory ofelasticity .  the formula, which is obtained in a simple manner, yieldsbuckling loads that are in better agreement with experiments than previousapproximate solutions to the nonlinear problem .
  a technique is discussed which, when applied to an iterative procedurefor the solution of an equation, accelerates the rate of convergence ifthe iteration converges and induces convergence if the iterationdiverges .  an illustrative example is given .
  the method presented in the previous parts is employed tosolve various kinds of nonlinear problems, such as problems concerninglarge deflections or buckling, or thermal creep, or inelasticstress redistribution involving thermal gradients, or design.  the procedure used in each case is one of direct iteration-i.e., after one assumes a starting point all subsequent cycles areself-generating .  simple numerical examples are worked out .
a special safety factor alone won't do the trick in the design oflightweight, high temperature missile structures .  if you really wantto end up with the most efficient structure you can get, an entirelynew design approach is needed .
parkes and sprague and huang have shown that it is possible for straingrowth to occur in a beam structure under temperature-load cycling .the various aspects of this problem as to criteria for convergence anddivergence of the strain accumulation can be simply demonstrated bythermal cycling one element of a two-element structure .
stress and strain distributions were studied in long flat plates inorder to develop practical analytical procedures for the design analysisof aircraft structures at elevated temperatures .various load-temperature conditions are presented . these include ..methods of analysis for calculation of stress distributions underand plastic range,.ture .experimental verification of the analytical procedures is shown withcomparisons between the use of constant room temperature or temperaturedependent values of modulus of elasticity and coefficient of thermalexpansion .the test specimen, equipment, instrumentation, and experimental programare discussed in detail . experimental data obtained from the specimenand associated material control coupon tests are presented .
  a general analytical procedure is outlined for structures subjected tovarying thermal and mechanical stressing conditions .  consideration isgiven to the accumulation of time-independent plastic strains and creepstrains .  stress-strain-temperature-time relations for uniaxial andmultiaxial stresses are defined, based on various material behaviorassumptions .  several of the assumptions are compared with a limitednumber of time-varying temperature and uniaxial stress tests .  the procedure is illustrated by its application to uniaxial stressproblems in which /planes originally plane remain plane/ and to planestress plate problems .  a solution, based on the influence coefficientapproach to the plane stress plate problem, is obtained which isapplicable to all plate plan forms, edge boundary conditions, andinplane thermal and mechanical loading conditions .  from the predicted inelastic behavior of a three-bar structuresubjected to cyclic thermal and mechanical loading conditions, it isshown that eventual failure could result from large permanent deformationaccumulations, tensile rupture, or thermal-stress-fatigue .  a sample plate with a centrally located hole was analyzed for twocycles of a time-varying temperature and edge stress condition .  bothplastic strain reversals and plastic strain growths were predicted atthe hole .  however, a test-theory comparison indicated failure bycreep-rupture .
  the results of tests on pressurized ring-stiffened cylinders subjectedto compression and bending are presented and discussed .  theresults obtained at high values of internal pressure differ from thoseobtained by previous investigators in that the theoretical smalldeflectioncompressive buckling coefficient of 0.6 was nearly achievedin each test .  small amounts of internal pressure had a greater stabilizingeffect in the bending tests than in the compression tests .
  in a recent paper, the authors presented a statistical, semiempiricaldesign procedure for the determination of the bucklingstrength of unpressurized and pressurized cylinders under axialcompression .  this procedure has been extended in the presentpaper to the bending of unpressurized and pressurized cylindricalshells and allows the calculation of the critical bending stress witha knowledge of the cylinder geometry and the internal pressureonly .  because no published data could be found, an extensive seriesof bending tests of pressurized cylinders has been performed .these new data for pressurized cylinders are treated semiempiricallytogether with all of the other known test data for unpressurizedcylinders .  best-fit curves are presented using applicabletheoretical parameters .  design curves for determining thecritical buckling stress for unpressurized and pressurized cylindersin bending are then developed as 90 per cent probability curvesfrom the test data .
  a theory is derived to predict the stresses and deformations ofstretched-membrane structural components for loads under which part ofthe membrane wrinkles .  rather than studying in detail the deformationsin the wrinkled region, the present theory studies average displacementsof the wrinkled material .  specific solutions of problems in flat andcurved membranes are presented .  the results of these solutions showthat membrane structures retain much of their stiffness at loads substantiallyabove the load at which wrinkling first occurs .
the stability of circular cylindrical shells under pure bending is investigatedby means of batdorf's modified donnell's equation and thegalerkin method .  the results of this investigation have shown that,contrary to the commonly accepted value, the maximum critical bendingstress is for all practical purposes equal to the critical compressivestress .
  donnell's equation for thin-walled circular cylinders is replaced bywhere w is a non-dimensional form of the radial displacement and q isthe distributed radial loading .  this equation retains the essentialsimplicity of the original but, unlike donnell's equation, the accuracydoes not decrease as the wavelength of circumferential distortionincreases .
  the equation for the equilibrium of cylindricalshells introduced by donnell in naca report no. 479 tofind the critical stresses of cylinders in torsion isapplied to find critical stresses for cylinders withsimply supported edges under other loading conditions .it is shown that by this method solutions may be obtainedvery easily and the results in each case may be expressedin terms of two nondimensional parameters, one dependenton the critical stress and the other essentially determinedby the geometry of the cylinder .  the influence ofboundary conditions related to edge displacements in theshell median surface is discussed .  the accuracy of thesolutions found is established by comparing them withprevious theoretical solutions and with test results .  the solutions to a number of problems concerned withbuckling of cylinders with simply supported edges on thebasis of a unified viewpoint are presented in a convenientform for practical use .
the paper deals with the general equations for the vibration of thincylinders and a theoretical and experimental investigation is made ofthe type of vibration usually associated with bells .  the cylinders aresupported in such a manner that the ends remain circular withoutdirectional restraint being imposed .  it is found that the complexityof the mode of vibration bears little relation to the naturalfrequency,. for example, cylinders of very small thickness-diameterratio, with length about equal to or less than the diameter, may havemany of their higher frequencies associated with the simpler modes ofvibration .  the frequency equation which is derived by the energymethod is based on strain relations given by timoshenko .  in thisapproach, displacement equations are evolved which are comparable tothose of love and flugge, though differences are evident due to thestrain expressions used by each author .  results are given forcylinders of various lengths, each with the same thickness-diameterratio, and also for a very thin cylinder in which the simpler modes ofvibration occur in the higher frequency range .  it is shown that thereare three possible natural frequencies for a particular nodal pattern,two of these normally occurring beyond the aural range .
the flexural vibrations of the walls of thin cylinders are considered .in this type of vibration many forms of nodal pattern may exist owing tothe combination of circumferential and axial nodes .  theoreticalexpressions are developed for the natural frequencies of cylinders withfreely-supported and fixed ends and a comparison is made with thefrequencies obtained experimentally .  in practice, the ends of cylinders are subjected to a certain degreeof fixing by end-plates, flanges, etc., and the natural frequencies thuslie between the corresponding values for freely-supported and fixedends .  to make possible the estimation of such frequencies, a method isdevised in which an equivalent wavelength factor is used .  this factorrepresents the wavelength of the freely-supported cylinder that wouldhave the same frequency as the cylinder under consideration whenvibrating in the same mode .  the results of experimental investigationswith various end thicknesses and flange dimensions are recorded, andfrom these the equivalent factors are derived .  sets of curves calculated for cylinders with freely-supported ends andcovering a range of cylinder thicknesses are given .  from these it ispossible to obtain close approximation to the frequencies of cylindersunder other end conditions by the use of an appropriate factor .  an exampleis given of frequency calculations for a large air-receiver forwhich two frequencies were identified by experiment .
  the frequency spectra and vibration modes of thin-walledcircular cylinders subjected to internal pressure are considered .it is shown that for very thin cylinders the internal pressurehas a significant effect on the natural vibration characteristics .for these cylinders, particularly those having smaller length todiameter ratios, the mode associated with the lowest frequencyis in general not the simplest mode .  the exact number ofcircumferential nodes, n, which occur in the mode associatedwith the lowest frequency, depends on the internal pressure p .if this number n is large, it decreases rapidly with increasing pwhen p is small, and the /fundamental/ frequency--the lowestfrequency at each p--increases rapidly with increasing internalpressure .  at higher values of internal pressure the frequencyspectrum tends to be arranged in the regular manner, the frequencyincreases with the increasing number of circumferentialnodes, and the lowest frequency rises slowly with the internalpressure .  experimental results on the frequency spectra, vibrationmodes, and structural damping of a series of thin-walled cylinderssubjected to internal pressure are briefly described .  theseresults show agreement with the features predicted by reissner's  the effect of slight deviation of the cylinder from perfectcircular symmetry is discussed .
  an apparatus is described which permits the modeshape of a vibrating circular cylindrical shell to beobtained quite easily .  these measurements are madewithout contacting the cylinder and can be convertedto actual lineal values .  a representative number ofresults obtained with such a system are shown to illustratethe relationship between the nodal pattern andfrequency in a cylinder as well as the effect of internalpressure on these frequencies .  finally, comparisonsare made between these results and timoshenko theoryand an appropriate shell theory .
  the free oscillations of a thin pressurized cylindrical shell containinga compressible fluid are studied here .  the use of anapproximate set of shell equations (shallow shell theory) leads toa relatively simple formula for the natural frequencies of thecoupled fluid-cylinder system .  the results of some computationsare presented .
various observations and preliminary experimentshave shown that the effect of imperfections upon thevibrations of bodies of revolution cannot be neglected .owing to the possibility of applying the lagrangeequation, the influence of the imperfections could betraced through the kinetic energy, the potential energyand the dissipation function .  although the fundamentaldifficulty of the uncertainty of certain variableswas not eliminated, this procedure permitted at leastthe making of general qualitative statements as to thebehaviour of the system if imperfections are present .
  flugge's set of differential equations of equilibrium forcircular cylindrical shells is expressed in a form analogousto the donnell equations .  the results of solutions of thetwo sets of equations for a simply supported cylinder undera centrally applied, uniformly distributed radial line loadover a generator segment, as well as under sinusoidallyapplied line loads, are in very good agreement for theparticular geometry investigated .
energy expressions and the related equilibrium equations and naturalboundary conditions for the determination of the stresses in and displacementsof uniform, thin-walled cylinders of arbitrary cross sectionloaded in an arbitrary manner by surface and edge forces and moments arepresented .  the derivations are based upon the kirchhoff-loveassumptions of the classical theory of shells and are performed towithin a degree of accuracy employed by flugge in his derivation of theequilibrium equations applicable to circular cylindrical shells,. hence,in terms of stress resultants, the exact, small-deflection equilibriumequations are obtained .  methods of simplification of the relationsderived and of solution of the differential equations presented areindicated .
this paper presents an analysis of the deflections of and stresses in ashort noncircular cylindrical shell of uniform wall thickness whosemedian-surface cross section is described analytically by a simple expressioncorresponding to a family of doubly symmetric ovals .  thecylinder is under a uniform lateral load and is simply supported at itsedges .  the small deflection analysis considered is based upon a seriessolution of appropriate differential equations of shell theory whichleads ultimately to infinite sets of algebraic equations, truncatedforms of which are considered .  numerical values of the significantstresses and displacements for points of the oval cylinder, which are 5percent of the axial length and 2.5 percent of the circumferentiallength apart, have been calculated for an oval cross section with amajor-minor axis ratio of 1.10 .
  solutions of donnell's equations of the small deformationsof the perfectly elastic thin-walled circular cylindricalshell are compared with those obtainable from flugge'sequations .  the range of the basic parameters is foundwithin which the two solutions are approximately equal .
  the homogeneous differential equations of donnell'stheory of thin cylindrical shells are integrated .  expressionsare obtained in closed form for the displacements,membrane stresses, moments, and shear forces .
  n. j. hoff has presented formulas which can be used inthe solution of boundary-value problems of circularcylinders .  the purpose of this note is to express these resultsin exact simplified form,. a more detailed investigationappears elsewhere .  the notation will be that ofhoff unless otherwise stated .
  experimental studies of panel flutter were conducted at a mach numberof 1.3 to verify the existence of this phenomenon and to study theeffects of some structural parameters on the flutter characteristics .thin rectangular metal plates were used in these studies and were mountedas a section of the tunnel wall .  most of the data were obtained byusing aluminum-alloy panels, although a few steel, magnesium, and brasspanels were also used .  different materials with various thicknessesand lengths were used to determine the effect of these parameters onpanel flutter .  the experimental program consisted of three phases ..panels clamped front and rear, and (3) buckled panels clamped on allfour edges .  panel flutter was obtained under controlled laboratory conditionsand it was found that, at the flow conditions of these tests, increasingtensile forces were effective in eliminating flutter, as were shorteningthe panels or increasing the bending stiffness .  no apparent systematictrends in the flutter modes or frequencies could be observed,and it is significant that the panel flutter sometimes involved highermodes and frequencies .  the presence of a pressure differential betweenthe two surfaces of a panel was observed to have a stabilizing effect .initially buckled panels were more susceptible to flutter than panelswithout buckling .  buckled panels with all four edges clamped were muchless prone to flutter than buckled panels clamped front and rear .
  experimental panel flutter data have been obtained at mach numbersfrom 1.2 to 3.0 for buckled rectangular panels and the effect of a pressuredifferential has been determined .  increasing the pressuredifferential was effective in eliminating flutter on most of the panelstested .  the effects of the variables in the panel flutter parametersure, e is young's modulus, and t and l are the panel thickness andlength, respectively) were investigated for buckled panels clamped onthe front and rear edges and a critical value of this parameter of 0.44is indicated at zero pressure differential when the panel width-lengthratio is 0.69 .  an estimated flutter boundary is presented for buckledpanels clamped on four edges, with width-length ratios of 0.21 to 4.0 .this boundary shows that the panel width is more significant than thepanel length when the ratio of width to length is less than approximately0.5 .  panels clamped on four edges and buckled in two half wavesin the direction of flow were found to be particularly susceptible toflutter .  the results of limited tests on panels with applied damping,curvature, and lengthwise stiffeners are also presented and discussed .
  skin-stiffener aluminum alloy panels consisting of four bays, eachbay having a length-width ratio of 10, were tested at a mach numberof 3.0 at dynamic pressures ranging from 1,500 psf to 5,000 psf and atstagnation temperatures from 300 f to 655 f .  the panels were restrainedby the supporting structure in such a manner that partial thermalexpansion of the skins could occur in both the longitudinal and lateraldirections .  a boundary faired through the experimental flutter points consistedof a flat-panel portion, a buckled-panel portion, and a transitionpoint at the intersection of the two boundaries .  in the regionwhere a panel must be flat when flutter occurs, an increase in panelskin temperature (or midplane compressive stress) makes the panel moresusceptible to flutter .  in the region where a panel must be buckledwhen flutter occurs, the flutter trend is reversed .  this reversal intrend is attributed to the panel postbuckling behavior .
  an investigation of the effects of aerodynamic heating on the flutterof multibay external-skin panels has been carried out at a mach numberof 3.0 in the langley 9- by 6-foot thermal structures tunnel .  bothaluminum-alloy and 17-7 ph stainless-steel panels with a length-widthratio of 10 for each bay were tested at dynamic pressures betweenaddition, a few tests were made on the lower vertical stabilizer of thex-15 airplane which has external-skin panels unsupported for a length  all panels showed flutter boundaries characterized by an increasein panel thickness required to prevent flutter with increasing thermallyinduced stress prior to buckling .  after buckling the panels showedflutter boundaries characterized by a decrease in thickness required toprevent flutter with further increases in thermal stress .  the largestthickness required to prevent flutter in the presence of aerodynamicheating occurred at the transition between the flat-panel boundary andthe buckled-panel boundary .  this peak value (for aluminum-alloy panel)was as much as 60 percent greater than the extrapolated value for anunheated, unloaded panel .  values of the modified-thickness-ratio flutter parameter for theunstressed panels (obtained by extrapolation) were in fair agreement forthe aluminum, steel, and x-15 stabilizer panels .  peak values attransition, however, showed large differences due to apparently minorchanges in panel-support construction and or changes in panel-skinmaterial .
  a multiweb wing structure, representing an airplane or missile wing,was tested under simulated supersonic flight conditions to determine thetransient temperature distribution .  the aerodynamic loads played animportant and unanticipated role, however, in that the model experienceda dynamic failure near the end of the test .  the test is discussed andthe conclusion reached that the model failed as a result of the combinedaction of aerodynamic heating and loading .  the temperature datacollected are analyzed and are shown to be in reasonable agreement withcalculated values .
  a modified method of van driest's flat-plate theory for turbulentboundary layer has been found to simplify the calculation of local skinfrictioncoefficients which, in turn, have made it possible to obtainthrough reynolds analogy theoretical turbulent heat-transfer coefficientsin the form of stanton number .  a general formula is given andcharts are presented from which the modified method can be solved formach numbers 1.0 to 12.0, temperature ratios 0.2 to 6.0, and reynoldsnumbers 0.2 x 10 to 200 x 10 .
  a model is analyzed which exhibits the important properties associatedwith change in buckle pattern of plates .  the analysis includesa rigorous study of stability in its various modes .  a discussion ofhow the present results may be applied to plates and other elasticstructures is given .
  the nonlinear large deflection equations of von karman for platesare converted into a set of linear equations by expanding the displacementsinto a power series in terms of an arbitrary parameter .  thepost-buckling behavior of simply supported rectangular plates subjectedto longitudinal compression and to a uniform temperature rise isinvestigated in detail by solving the first few of the equations .  experimental data are presented for the compression problem .  comparisonsare made for total shortening and local strains and deflectionswhich indicate good agreement between experimental and theoreticalresults .
representative results are presented to show the current status ofthe panel flutter problem .  the discussion includes flat panels withand without midplane stresses, buckled panels, and both unstiffened andstiffened infinitely long circular cylinders .
an attempt has been made to identify the significant factors governingthe thermal-fatigue behaviour of nickel-base high-temperature alloys,mainly by using a laboratory technique with hot and cold fluidized bedsas the heating and cooling media .  a succession of heating shocks isgenerally more damaging than a succession of cooling shocks between thesame temperature limits .  the duration of the heating shock and theupper temperature of the cycle are dominant factors .  the thermalfatiguecracks are initiated at the surface and are intercrystalline inorigin and propagation .  surface oxidation, which is intergranular innature for nickel-base alloys, has a significant effect on thermalfatiguelife .
  published experimental results are assembled to support a previouslygiventheory of uniaxial deformation, and the theory is then used toanalyse published data on the creep-rupture and hot-fatigue of engineeringmaterials .  the theory enables data for different times andtemperatures to be classed together, thereby providing information overa much greater range of times than could practicably be covered byexperiments at a single temperature .  an underlying numerical patterncommon to all the widely different group 8 materials considered thenshows through the experimental scatter .  data for further engineeringmaterials is considered in these terms in part 2 .
an alloy of nimonic 90 type has been tested under cyclic loads attemperatures of 800 deg., 850 deg. and 900 deg. cent .  graham'sdescriptive theory of deformation has been developed in detail for thetests reported here, and shown to provide a satisfactory description ofthe experimental results .  the variation of cumulative strain withnumber of cycles can be described by the sum of powers of cycle number,n, n, n, and n .  there is qualitative agreement between the observedand the calculated stress-strain loops .  the effect of variation ofmaximum stress per cycle can be described by the sum of power terms withsimple exponents .  within the scatter of observation, the total time tofracture is independent of the frequency .
  a description is given of the n.g.t.e. thermal shock analogue whichis suitable for estimating the temperature in a turbine blade section asa function of position and time when the blade is subjected to a stepchange in gas temperature .  the method of operating the analogue andobtaining results has also been described .  the limitations of the analogue have been stated, but they areconsidered a small penalty in view of the essential simplicity of thedesign .
  transient temperatures in aerofoilsections and tapered discs arecalculated taking advantage of simplificationsin heat flow analysisachieved in biot's variational method .cross-sections are represented bya line of adjacent squares of varioussizes suitable for the local dimensions,e.g. small squares near the leadingand trailing edges .  the potential,dissipation and surface dissipationfunctions of biot's method areset up, and the lagrange equations lead,by automatic procedures, to aneigenvalue formulation in matrix form forthe temperatures and their firsttime derivatives .  solutions are sumsof exponentials in time, and areevaluated by digital computer, requiringabout five minutes for each crosssectionand heat transfer coefficient .transient temperatures in a particularaerofoil section for variationof heat transfer coefficient and forexternal temperature depending exponentiallyon time agree with resultsobtained on an analogue computer .maximum transient temperature differencesare evaluated for tapered discsby a simple electrical analogue) withvariation of edge radius and heattransfer coefficient .  peculiaritiesin the solution for cyclic temperatureexternal to an aerofoil overa range of frequencies indicate limitationsin the mathematical formulation .a successful solution for cyclicexternal temperature might enableeigenvalues to be separated out inexperimental measurements usingelectronic equipment, and this might beextended to exponential externaltemperature if a relationship betweencyclic and exponential externaltemperature could be established .  eigenvaluesand eigenvectors as discretevalues arise fictitiously from thesub-division into squares and thepossibility of an integral formulationis mentioned .  there is a possible,but not immediate, extension tocooled blades, whose cross-sectionsare multiply-connected regions .transient stresses due to creep, andviscoelasticity might be included .
  since the conventional elastic analysis of thermal stress problemscoupled with limiting creep rates and time-dependent fracture stressesas (inelastic) design criteria, results in design procedures for thermalstresses (in heat exchangers, nuclear reactors, flight structures atsupersonic speeds, etc.) of considerable unreality, the effect ofvarious types of rheological behavior (viscoelastic, plastic, workhardening) on the level of thermal stresses is analyzed under simplifiedassumptions, such as uniaxial stress and polar or cylindrical symmetry .the effect on the thermal stress intensity of the rheological behaviorof the material is shown to be very significant, particularly withrespect to stress relaxation and the development of residual stresses .
  a dislocation climb creep model is considered which does not requirethe production of immobile dislocations .  the creep equation thatresults from the analysis iswhere a and b are constants, is the stress, q is the activation energyof creep and kt has its usual meaning .  this equation is quite similarto one previously proposed .
  boundary-layer heat transfer is analyzed for the case of a sinusoidaldistribution of temperature in the direction of flow .  it isshown that for both laminar and turbulent flow the spatial distributionof heat transfer is generally out of phase with the walltemperature by an angle of 30 to 45 .  this leads to the conclusionthat in some areas the heat flow is opposite to the temperaturedifference as used in the definition of the heat-transfercoefficient, and points to the basic shortcomings of this concept .the physical explanation for this behavior is found to be thetemperature-field distortion by the fluid motion .  the distortionis measured by the peclet number .  approximate equationsrepresenting a /conduction analogy/ were used in this analysisand the validity of these equations for unsteady flow is examinedwith reference to limitations in frequency and wavelength .  asolution of these equations is given for the case of a velocity profilewhich is not a straight line .  the use of previously developedvariational principles for the evaluation of convective heattransfer including cases of three-dimensional unsteady flow,turbulence, and nonparallel streamlines is also discussed .
  the lagrangian thermodynamic equations of irreversibleprocesses are extended to convective heat transfer .  this generalizationprovides equations for the unified analysis of transientheat flow in complex systems comprising solid structures andmoving fluids in either laminar or turbulent flow .  the conceptof a surface-heat-transfer coefficient is eliminated from the formulation.  the theory is developed along two different lines .  inone approach a new concept referred to as the /trailing function/is introduced .  it represents the surface-heat-transfer propertiesand may be evaluated by quite simple but remarkably accuratevariational procedures .  the method of /associated fields/ is alsogeneralized to convective phenomena .  the second line of approachextends to convective heat transfer the thermodynamicconcept of entropy production for both laminar and turbulentflow .  the theory amounts to an extension of the thermodynamicsof irreversible processes to systems for which onsager'srelations are not valid .
the use of model tests in the prediction of full-scale critical flutterspeeds is now well established, and the technique of such tests istherefore worthy of discussion . in order to obtain critical speeds forthe model within the speed range of ordinary wind tunnels it isnecessary that the model should differ in some respect from a mere smallsuggested by mckinnon wood the modification of the model consists in areduction of its effective stiffnesses . this method has the defect /inmost cases probably not serious/ that the model experiment is conductedat a reynolds number much below that for full-scale . in the presentpaper it is pointed out that an alternative method of reducing thecritical speed is to increase the mass loading of the model and to makethe flutter tests in compressed air . * it is then quite feasible toreach the full-scale reynolds number . this method of reducing thecritical speeds by a proportionate increase of all effective densitiesmay also be combined with a reduction of the elasticity of the model .the relation of model and full-scale stresses at the critical flutterspeeds is considered . where the reduction in critical speed is effected by increase of density only, the model and full-scale stresses areequal . in a model of reduced elasticity the stresses in the wires arethe same as for full-scale,  whereas, the stresses in the spars are less than for full-scale . this is in accord with the usual experience thatthe wires of such a model are the first parts of the structure to failin a flutter .lastly, the influence of gravity on flutter is considered . this isnegligibly small for full-scale, but not necessarily so for the model .gravitational effects can sometimes be corrected by suitable orientation of the model .
  this addendum provides a short note on two aspects omitted from theoriginal paper, viz. gravitational effects and structural damping .  ashort list of references to earlier papers dealing with the subject isalso added .
  the requirements for simulating in a wind tunnel flutter conditionsappropriate to high-speed flight are discussed, and an assessment ismade of the desirable features of a wind tunnel suitable for fluttertesting at transonic and supersonic speeds .  it is concluded that such a tunnel should have either the mach numberor the stagnation pressure variable during the tunnel run, and that itis of considerable advantage, and for some purposes essential, for highstagnation pressures to be available .  the stagnation pressure requiredto allow flight conditions to be simulated with a flutter model isconsidered to range from at least 2 atmospheres for transonic speeds toabout 15 atmospheres for m = 4 .  no attempt to simulate kinetic heatingis envisaged, although its effect on stiffness should be allowed for inthe design of the model .  to minimise uncertainties due to thevariation of the model stiffness with temperature it is desirable thatmeans for controlling the stagnation temperature should be incorporatedin the tunnel .
  this report considers the loss of flexural rigidity of a thin wing dueto the presence of middle-surface stresses resulting from aerodynamicheating .  the spanwise properties of the wing are assumed constant butthe wing section is arbitrary .  the loss of flexural rigidity iscomparable with the corresponding loss of torsional rigidity .
an outline is given of the uses of flutter models as anaid to the designer in the avoidance of flutter .  detailsare given of the different types and methods of constructionthat are used for flutter models and of thevarious test facilities that are available for high speedand low speed tests .  the procedure followed in the u.k. for flutter clearanceof the full scale aircraft is described, and the valueof the electronic flutter simulator in this field isdiscussed .
flutter research on reflection plane models of straight, swept, anddelta wings in a 3 x 4 foot transonic test facility . techniques ofmodel construction and testing developed .
the basic problems of flutter testing in the low supersonic speed rangesimulate full-scale airplanes when mach number is included as a parameterare reviewed and are compared with those where velocity is scaledwhen the leading edges become transonic,. these are compared withresults given elsewhere and serve as a check on the results of tablesi and ii .
  the phenomenon of cumulative damage under repeatedloads was assumed to be related to the net work absorbedby a specimen .  the number of loading cycles appliedexpressed as a percentage of the number to failure at agiven stress level would be the proportion of useful lifeexpended .  when the total damage, as defined by thisconcept, reached 100 per cent, the fatigue specimen shouldfail .  experimental verification of this concept for analuminum alloy, using different types of specimens, variousstress ratios, and various combinations of loadingcycles is presented .  these data are also analyzed to provideinformation on different stress ratios when an s-ncurve for any one ratio is known .  results of a sampleanalysis based on experiments are given .  it is concludedthat a simple and conservative analysis is possibleusing the concept of cumulative fatigue damage .
  information on atmospheric turbulence obtained from countingaccelerometer records is examined and relations giving the variation ofgust frequency with gust velocity and altitude are obtained .  theresults are summarized in a form convenient for use in estimating thefatigue life of an aircraft .
  results of fatigue tests carried out at r.a.e. on typical aircraftwing structural joints are correlated to give an indication of generalfatigue behaviour .  the results are plotted in the form of s - log ncurves, and these indicate that the mode of behaviour cannot beattributed to any single factor, such as the type of aluminium alloy,the ultimate tensile strength, or the mean stress of the fatigue cycle .the detailed method of design undoubtedly has a predominant influence onbehaviour, but this quality is not revealed by a broad classificationaccording to the proportion of load transmitted at holes .
  a method is presented for the estimation of fatigue damage toaircraft structural elements .  the gust spectrum to which the aircraftis subjected is analysed in terms of infinitesimal loading intervals .gust data supplied by j. taylor for flying below 15,000 ft are used tostudy fatigue damage in a number of aircraft structural joints and onewhole structure .
  the buckling of a thin cylindrical shell simply supportedalong the perimeter of its end sections is analyzed underhoop compressive stresses varying in the axial direction .the thermal stresses arising from a uniform increase inthe temperature of the cylinder are determined .  it isfound that such thermal stresses are not likely to causeelastic buckling .  simple approximate formulas are developedfor buckling stress and thermal stress .
the problem of thermal buckling of shells arises in connectionwith air-frame bodies subject to aerodynamic heating atsupersonic speeds .  the case of the shell with clamped edges ispresented, as this case typifies all structures with a tubular shellstiffened at intervals with stiffening rings .  the shell is assumedto be unrestrained longitudinally and fully restrained laterally atthe edges .
  thermal stress distributions in uniform circular cylindrical shellsdue to axial temperature distributions are investigated .  the discontinuityeffect due to the presence of a cooler stiffening bulkhead isconsidered, and the possibility of thermal buckling of the shell due tothe circumferential discontinuity stress is examined .  the bucklinganalysis is based on donnell's shell equation, and particular attentionis given to shells having clamped edges .  an experimental investigation of this buckling problem is discussed,and the results obtained are seen to agree reasonably well with theory .
  a theory is presented to predict the buckling temperature of anaxially compressed, uniformly heated ring-stiffened cylinder .  thecylinder buckles because of the interaction of the axial stress due toapplied compressive loads and the circumferential stress resultingfrom restraint of thermal expansion by the rings .  buckling chartscovering a wide range of cylinder proportions are presented for bothclamped and simply supported cylinders .  the buckling temperature for agiven axial loading is determined from a simple equation involving acoefficient given in the buckling charts and the radius-thickness ratioof the cylinder .
  this paper develops a new method for determining the bucklingstresses of cylindrical shells under various loading conditions .for convenience of exposition, it is divided into two parts .  in part 1, the equation for the equilibrium of cylindricalshells introduced by donnell in naca report no. 479 to findthe critical stresses of cylinders in torsion is applied to findcritical stresses for cylinders with simply supported edges underother loading conditions .  it is shown that by this method solutionsmay be obtained very easily and the results in each case maybe expressed in terms of two nondimensional parameters, onedependent on the critical stress and the other essentially determinedby the geometry of the cylinder .  the influence of boundaryconditions related to edge displacements in the shell mediansurface is discussed .  the accuracy of the solutions found isestablished by comparing them with previous theoretical solutionsand with test results .  the solutions to a number of problemsconcerned with buckling of cylinders with simply supportededges on the basis of a unified viewpoint are presented in aconvenient form for practical use .  in part 2, a modified form of donnell's equation for theequilibrium of thin cylindrical shells is derived which is equivalentto donnell's equation but has certain advantages in physicalinterpretation and in ease of solution, particularly in the caseof shells having clamped edges .  the solution of this modifiedequation by means of trigonometric series and its application toa number of problems concerned with the shear buckling stressesof cylindrical shells are discussed .  the question of implicitboundary conditions also is considered .
in the recent paper by zuk, an expression was presented forthe critical buckling temperature of a clamped cylindrical shellin terms of the material and geometrical properties of the shell .restraint at the edges of the shell was assumed to be provided byrigid frames experiencing no temperature rise .the circumferential stress induced in the shell when it experienceda temperature rise, t, may be approximated by the function .in other words, there is a compressive circumferential stress alongthe entire length, l, of the shell .it is well known, however, that the discontinuity stresses introduced atthe junction of a shell and a rigid frame (or bulk-head) are extremelylocalized, and the circumferential stresses induced in the shelldecrease rapidly away from the joint .
  this paper is concerned with buckling of a circular cylinder offinite length subjected to a symmetrical band of external pressure .both experimental and theoretical results are presented .  theexperimental data were obtained from tests of three thin-walledsteel cylinders subjected to external pressure by a pneumatictube encircling the test cylinder at mid-length .  the theory isbased on the principle of minimum potential energy, and therayleigh-ritz procedure is used to expand the displacementcomponents in trigonometric series .  theoretical results are given in the form of graphs which showbuckling pressure as a function of the following ratios ..              cylinder radius thickness              cylinder length radius              pressure bandwidth cylinder length  theoretical results are in close agreement with existing solutionsto special cases in which (1) the pressure is applied over theentire lateral surface, and (2) the pressure is concentrated along acircumferential line .  the theoretical results are also in agreementwith the test results .
  this is a survey of certain recent advances made in the studyof aerodynamic unsteady flow and of some of the new problemsarising which require further investigation .  no attempt is made toreproduce classical theory, but emphasis rather is laid on validityand general usefulness, particular attention being given to unsteadyboundary-layer effects, especially when there is flow separation.  coverage is broad and author thus provides a useful reviewfor those interested in this field .
  the report describes experiments devised to investigatesome of the previously unexplained peculiarities of normal types ofpitot-static tube .  in the process use was made of what was as nearlyas could be a standard static pressure tube .  the experiments led to a new alternative design of instrumenthaving a nose of modified ellipsoidal shape and for which the maincharacteristics have been investigated .  it has been found to be necessary as well as desirable toinclude a discussion of the implications of the term /calibrationfactor/ and (although not in this respect comprehensive) of the specialfeatures and limitations of various pitot-static tubes .
  the critical flutter speed is evaluated for a two-dimensional thinbuckled panel with one surface exposed to a supersonic airstream and theother to still air at the same static pressure .  the panel is simplysupported along the leading and trailing edges by rigid edge membersseparated by an elastic member represented by a compression spring .the whole system is acted upon by a constant compressive force uniformlydistributed along the edge members .  the aerodynamic forces acting onthe deflected panel are found from two-dimensional /quasi-steady/theory, valid for slow oscillations where the downwash velocity is smallcompared with the speed of flow and provided that the mach number issufficiently greater than .  the elastic behaviour of the panel is givenby von karman's large deflection equations modified to cover initiallycurved plates .  the solution of the equations is carried out by meansof galerkin's method, which has been shown to give valid results fora panel with a non-zero bending rigidity .  the influence of the midplane compressive force carried by the panelitself, the initial buckle amplitude and the elastic restraint againstedge displacements is investigated, and curves are presented giving thecritical dynamic pressure ratio as a function of these variables .
  approximate expressions for thegeneralised airforces acting on arectangular wing of low aspect ratiooscillating harmonically in sonic flowat low frequencies are derived in thispaper .  the modes of oscillationconsidered are rigid modes and a smallselection of flexible modes .  resultsare presented as the first few terms ofinfinite expansions .  a brief description of the modesof oscillation and of the generalisedairforces is given towards the end ofthe paper so that the results may beused without the main text of the paperhaving to be read .
  the economy of a design dependson the accuracy with which it is possibleto solve the various structural problemsas this has a direct bearing onstructure weight .  this paper describesthe calculation of the bending momentson a specific weapon for the high-g steadycircling case .  a hybrid method isused to obtain the aerodynamic loads .  the results presented show the effectof a number of parameters, such as altitude,weight, acceleration and machnumber - on the magnitude of the maximumbending moment .
  in this summary paper, theeffects of initial deformations on thebuckling and postbuckling characteristicsof circular cylindricalshells under hydrostatic pressureis determined in an approximate manner.  the influence of initialaxisymmetric deformations is stressed .also, the classical buckling ofan axially compressed, noncircularthe results show that the majorminoraxis ratio of the cross sectionhas a marked effect on thecritical load, and that use of themaximum radius of curvature in theformula for the classical bucklingstress of a circular cylindricalshell leads to good results for moderateeccentricities .
  a survey of the state-of-the-artfor the stability of thin-walledconical shells is presented .  knowntheoretical results are summarizedand compared with experiment .  theshortcomings of present knowledgeand recommended work for the futureare discussed .
  with a view to the study ofaerodynamic problems, a review is madeof boundary layer theory for a flatplate moving with a time-dependentvelocity .  unsteady effects are shownto enter according to the magnitudeof the ratio of time for diffusion to actthroughout the boundary layer to thecharacteristic time of the imposed unsteadiness .  it is concluded that a boundary layermay be considered quasi-steadyeven during extreme flight manocuvres .generation of acoustic noise purelyby boundary layer unsteadiness is generallysmall .  thermal and heat-transfereffects are cited .  unsteady boundary layer considerationsare important in damping oramplifying certain instabilities, such as flutterof panels and stalling flutter ofaerofoils .  in connection with the aerofoilproblem, laminar separationconcepts and the stagnation-point boundarylayer are described for unsteadyflow .  an analysis of aerofoil lift hysteresisis described, using unsteadylaminar boundary layer considerations, whichleads to a prediction of counterclockwisehysteresis at maximum lift .
  the report is concerned with the vortex flow which ariseswhen separation occurs at a highly swept leading edge .  measurementswere made in the flow over flat plates at 15 incidence each havinga sharp leading edge of 65 sweep .  the pressure and velocitydistributions both along the axis of the vortex and for onecross section of the flow are presented together with a preliminarydiscussion of their significance .
  the slender-body approximation of linearized compressible flow isapplied to the problem of a delta wing in which flow separation occursat the leading edges .  the vortex sheets found in the real flow areapproximated by concentrated vortices with feeding lattices, and aplausible adaptation of kelvin's theorem is applied to simulate theforce-free nature of the vortex sheet .  the computations show that leading-edge separation produces anincrease in lift over that given by the jones slender-wing theory andthat the lift does not vary linearly with angle of attack .  computedpressure distributions and span loadings are presented and the theoreticallift results are compared with the results of simple force testsmade at a mach number of 1.9 .
  the practical need for researchinto the aerodynamics ofslender delta wings in unsteady motion hasbeen emphasized in a recentpaper by zbrozek .  two important aspects are ..        formationand presence of      leading-edge vortices .      with oscillatory or transient      modes of longitudinal (or      chordwise) bending .  the first of the aspectsabove, has already been brieflydiscussed in ref. 2 .  one feature ofthe flow with leading-edge vorticeswhich seems to be of particularsignificance to the dynamic behaviourof a wing is the shedding of vorticityat the leading edge as well as atthe trailing edge .  any time-dependentmotion, or distortion, of the wingleads to a change in the rate at whichvorticity is shed .  with moreconventional types of flow, the freevorticity being shed only from thetrailing edge has diminishing influenceon the wing, but when the freevorticity is shed from the leading edge,in passing downstream, itremains close to the upper surface of thewing .  it might be expectedthen, that, although the magnitudes of theunsteady forces may not begreatly affected for a slender delta, thetime delays associated withthe forces may be significantly differentfor the attached andseparated regimes of leading-edge flow .
  a study is made of the unsteady flow around anairfoil at transonic mach numbers, the situation beingsuch that local supersonic regions terminated by shockwavesare present in the vicinity of the airfoil .  forthe unsteady part of the flow, small perturbationstechnique is employed and the interaction with the shockwave is taken into account .  the case of an oscillatingaileron is considered first, and a solution is derivedfor the pressure distribution on the aileron .  it isfound that the solution has a simple form when theshock-wave is well ahead of the hinge axis of theaileron .  as the shock approaches the hinge-axis acorrection must be added to the solution .  an interpretationof these results is given .  the results arecompared with results of a theory which neglects thepresence of the shock and it is found that both agreefor m = 1 .  for m   1, however, neglecting the presenceof the shock waves introduces errors of the order ofmagnitude (1 - m), where m is the local mach numberbehind the shock .  the theory is finally extended to include the casein which the whole airfoil oscillates, but only thesolution for the subsonic region behind the shock istreated .  the role of the unsteady shock-boundary layerinteraction is discussed and it is shown that thismechanism can be included in the results of the presenttheory .
  recent results of tests in ther.a.e. wind tunnels concerned withthe measurement of pressure distributionshave shown slight discrepanciesbetween the readings of various staticpressure tubes and calculatedpressure distributions .  as a consequencesome doubt was felt concerningthe calibrations of tunnel static pressureand upon the validity of thereading given by the standard pitot-statichead .  it was therefore decided to check thestandard pitot-static headused in the r.a.e. wind tunnels, against aninstrument similar to themeasurements of static pressurewere also made using a long tube wherethe interference from headand support is calculated to be small .  this note gives the results of testsmade in the 5 ft open jet windtunnel and the no. 1 11 ft wind tunnelin order to determine the necessarycorrection to the reading of staticpressure given by the r.a.e.pitot-static head .  the tests were madeduring september and october, 1951 .
  comparative tests were made on seven conventionalpitot-static tubes to determine their static, dynamic, andresultant errors .  the effect of varying the dynamic opening,static openings, wall thickness, and inner-tube diameterwas investigated .  pressure-distribution measurementsshowing stem and tip effects were also made .  a tentativedesign for a standard pitot-static tube for use in measuringair velocity is submitted .  this report covers an investigation conducted underthe auspices of the national research council .
  this paper is an attempt to bring together the importantinformation regarding pitot tubes and their use,.to summarize the available data on the application ofvarious types of impact and velocity probes for theguidance of engineers and research workers,. and to aidthem in the design of flow instruments for specific applications.
early in the fall of 1943 the iowa institute of hydraulic researchundertook the design and fabrication of a variable-pressure watertunnel .  as the tunnel neared completion, however, its immediate usefor the study of the pressure distribution around various body formswas requested .the original request for this investigation was a natural out-growthof the need for systematic data on the distribution of pressurein flow around various bodies, particularly under conditions leading tocavitation, information which is desirable for the design of a widevariety of navy equipment .  ultimately the study is to include datafor two- and three-dimensional head and tail forms at various angles ofyaw .  the first phase of the study, namely the investigation ofthree-dimensional head forms at zero angle of yaw, is described herein .three general geometric series have been studied.dash rounded,ellipsoidal, and conical.dash together with other related forms .the data obtained have been systematized to yield information fora wide variety of geometrical forms either directly or by interpolation.  whenever possible, analytical methods have been used tocorroborate the experimental data and to provide a reliable meansof generalizing the results .
  random vibration is vibration which resultsfrom an excitation which is not well represented by any simplefunction (sinusoid, step, etc.) or any simple combination ofsuch functions but which is satisfactorily modeled by a stochasticprocess .  it is perhaps not too much of an exaggerationto say that /all vibration is random vibration ./  every vibrationrecord contains /hash/ at some level .  nevertheless,until recently, engineering vibration theory has been able toget along without including the consideration of random excitations.  now in several fields simultaneously there has occurred aburst of activity in the application of random processes .  theresponse of aircraft to buffeting from atmospheric turbulenceand the response of ships to confused seas have been put onreasonably firm footing .  possibly the most dramatic problemshave been posed by the development of large jet and rocketengines which produce spectacular amounts of random vibrationalenergy .  the high level of random vibration in a jetplane or a missile provides a severe environment with respectto fatigue failure of structural members and with respect tomalfunctions of sensitive equipment .
  the present state of knowledge on theproblem of fatigue failure dueto vibrations excited by jet noise is reviewed .it is concluded that it shouldcurrently be possible to make reasonableestimates of the stress levels set upin a structure by jet noise but, in general,the resultant fatigue life of thecomponents cannot be estimatedwith any confidence .
  a simple graphical network is used to determine thenatural frequencies of flexural vibration of continuousbeams having any number of spans of uniform length .the network is based upon a relatively few calculatedvalues .
  recordings have been made of the strains induced in afull scale rear fuselage test structure of the caravelleair-liner when one jet engine is running at maximum takeoffthrust .  the analysis has been concentrated on thestrains in the centres of panels .  correlation measurementsindicate that the larger panel strains occur aboveresonance peak in each panel has been identified with thefundamental stringer-twisting mode but the mode-shapes forthe two smaller peaks have not been completely determined .an attempt has been made to calculate the panel resonantfrequencies theoretically .
  with a view to studying the effect of strong transverse curvatureon boundary-layer problems, the axisymmetric free-convectionproblem along a vertical thin cylinder is investigatedtheoretically as well as experimentally .  a theory is developedas an extension of the pohlhausen solution of a thick axisymmetriclaminar boundary layer by mark and by glauert andlighthill .  experiments consist of a thermocouple survey of thetemperature field over an electrically-heated brass cylinder ofdiameter and 10 ft. height and an interferometric studyof the density field over a bare tungsten wire of 0.02-in. diameterand 5 ft. height .  the thermal-layer thicknesses are about fiveand fifty times the radii of the cylinders, respectively .  experimentalresults of the local heat-transfer coefficient are in excellentagreement with the theory .  this, in turn, justifies the theoriesof laminar boundary layer along a thin cylinder, at least indirectly .
  the natural frequencies of a continuousbeam resting on an arbitrary numberof uniformly spaced supports aredetermined from a difference equationformulation .  these frequencies fall inperiodically spaced groups that areseparated by spectral gaps of widthsequal to approximately half the intervalbetween the natural frequencies of asingle beam on a square root frequencyscale .  these groups tend to uniformspectra as the number of supports tendsto infinity, but the gaps remain, givinga band-pass character to the entirespectrum .  wave propagation along aninfinite, periodically supported beamis discussed and the phase and groupvelocities evaluated as functions of frequency.
for certain aero-elastic configurations it is possible to ascertaincritical flutter conditions from static considerations alone .  theidea is simply one of negation..  when the air speed exceeds a certainvalue statically stable equilibrium - and sometimes equilibrium itselftake place .  there are times when the dynamics of a situation arecomplex enough to defy a tractable analysis .  the value of being ableto indicate a flutter criterion from the simpler statics is clear .we will suppose flutter begins when some critical value of the airspeed (or some parameter simply related the to) is exceeded .  herewe will show that there is a critical value which, when exceeded,precludes static equilibrium .  underlying our work is the premisethat these two critical values are the same .  this assumption begsdiscussion .we will call the lowest value of our air speed parameter to precludestatically stable equilibrium of the system the transtability value .in some cases, excess of this value will ban all possibility ofstatic equilibrium - stable or not., we will then call it a strongtranstability value .
the forcible buckling of anexternal skin plate from a guided missile, with a pinned end,is considered in a supersonic air flow . conidtions of dynamic stabilityorthogonality and expansion of the buckling mode, the degree offreedom and cases of small deflection are considered .without a 50 half angle conical afterbodyin a pressurized ballisticof range at nominal mach numbers of 3.5 andof 90000 and 220000, respectively . it
when certain conditions are fulfilled for thickness ratio, aspect ratio, and reduced frequency for a three-dimensional wing, it can be shownthat the partial differential equation for the non-steady perturbationpotential can be reduced to a comparatively simple linear equation .the solution is then obtained by applying a fourier transformation inthe free-stream direction and then using an iterative process developedby adams and sears for steady flow . the method gives solutions validfor low combinations of aspect ratio and reduced frequency .the method is applied to a delta wing oscillating in some selected rigid and elastic modes . from the results it can be seen that the specialnon-steady forces in the potential equation, which are neglected inslender-body theory, are very important . stability derivatives can also be obtained by the method and it is seen that the damping in pitch maybe negative at m 1 for delta wings of too high aspect ratio .
  a method is developed for thecalculation of the pressure distributionand the aerodynamic forces andmoments on a wing performing harmonicpitching and heaving oscillations .the calculation is based on theassumption of inviscid potential flowwithout shock waves and is restrictedto small incidence, so that thelinearized theory is valid .  in contrast to other work in thefield the theory applies to allmach numbers .  it is restricted to smallvalues of the reduced frequencyand should be valid for the usual rangeof short periods occurring atpresent in flight .  the formal solutionyields two integral equations forthe parts of the load, which are in phaseand go out of phase with theoscillation,. these are of the same formas the corresponding equationin steady flow .  the way is thus opened for solutionsover the whole mach numberrange at small frequencies, if thecorresponding steady solutions canbe found .  the calculation is in facteasiest for m = 1 and has beendone here for delta-wings to supplementa previous supersonic calculation,made on different frequency assumptions,which broke down near m = 1 .it appears from the two sets of resultsthat the short period oscillationwill be unstable near m = 1, if the apexangle of the delta wing isgreater than about 60 .  this confirms anow generally recognised trend .  such results near m = 1 must ofcourse be invalidated to anunknown extent by thickness viscosity andshock waves at their maximumeffect .  nevertheless it is unlikely thatthese factors will removethe critical nature of the transonic dampingas calculated by this method .with all its obvious limitations this method,when extended to otherplanforms, should provide a useful tool instudying the effect ofgeometrical parameters on the stability ofan aircraft at transonicspeeds .
  the laplace transform ofthe lift distribution on an oscillatingrectangular wing in a supersonic flow is obtainedby separating the linearised equationfor the velocity potential in elliptic (cylindrical)co-ordinates .  the results for the caseof no spanwise distortion are expanded in ascendingpowers of the aspect ratio in orderto compare with the slender body theory, and thelongitudinal stability derivatives arecalculated .  it is found that at either supersonicor transonic speeds single-degree-offreedominstability in pitch is impossible insofaras the fourth power of the aspectratio is neglected .
by expanding the velocity potential in an asymptotic series, the aerodynamicforces on an oscillating low aspect ratio rectangular wing arecalculated . the approximate theory is valid for small values of ko /osemi-span-to-chord ratio,. k reduced frequency/ and complements anearlier low-aspect-ratio-wing theory by the author valid only forpointed wings like delta wings . the present report gives formulas forthe calculation of generalized forces for any smooth, flexible or rigidmode of oscillation with spanwise symmetry .comparisons with the slender-wing theory show that, except for wings ofvery low aspect ratio, unsteady-flow effects are appreciable even atfairly low reduced frequencies . near the upper limit in ko for theapplicability of the present theory good agreement is obtained with arecent theory for high aspect ratios .
an asymptotic expression is found for the lift distribution on a long,narrow, laminar wing, at incidence in a supersonic stream . the approximationsof the linearized potential theory are used .
the approximate theory of flow about slender bodies and wings originated by munk and jones is reviewed . it is presented here in a form thatemphasizes the relation to the source-sink methods of von karman andothers . the extension to noncircular bodies is made for subsonic flow,paralleling ward's extension for supersonic flow . the calculation ofpressures and forces and the extension of the theory to unsteady flowsare reviewed, and some discrepancies in the published literature areexplained .finally, interpreting the jones slender-wing result as the first term of an expansion in powers of a breadth parameter /e.g., aspect ratio/, itis shown how a more accurate theory can be developed by carrying additionalterms for both subsonic and supersonic speeds . this theory ofnot-so-slender wings is applied to some practical wing problems, includingdirect problems of flow past given wings and problems of wingdesign for minimum drag . the accuracy of the new results is assessed by comparison with linearized supersonic-airfoil theory for the specialcase of a flat delta wing .
  the theory of supersonic flow aroundslender bodies of revolution, yawed orunyawed, with pointed or open bows, basedon the linearized equation, is extendedto the case when the meridian section ofthe outer surface has discontinuities inslope .  expressions for the pressure distributionon the surface are obtained .  it isfound that the drag coefficient is no longerindependent of mach number, and tendsto zero more slowly than the square of thethickness of the body .  the large pressurechange behind a discontinuity is made upremarkably rapidly .  the first approximationto the lift coefficient is unchanged .
  the modified slender-body methodused by nielsen, katzen, and tangin rm a50f06, 1950, to predict thelift and moment interference of triangularwing-body combinations hasbeen adapted to combinations withother than triangular wings .  thatpart of the method for predicting theeffect of the body on the wing hasbeen retained, but a new method forpredicting the effect of the wing onthe body has been presented .  thesemethods have been applied to theprediction of the lift-curve slopes ofnearly 100 triangular, rectangular,and trapezoidal wing-body configurations.  the estimated and experimentalvalues for the lift-curve slopesagree for most of the cases within 10percent .  some of the higherordereffects that must be taken intoaccount in a theory that is togive greater accuracy than the presentone are discussed .  a numericalexample illustrating the method is included .
  a method is presented forcalculating the lift and pitching-momentcharacteristics of circular cylindricalbodies in combination with triangular,rectangular, or trapezoidalwings or tails through the subsonic,transonic, and supersonic speed ranges .the method covers unbankedwings, sweptback leading edges orsweptforward trailing edges, lowangles of attack, and the effects ofwing and tail incidence .  the wingbodyinterference is handled by themethod presented in naca rm's a51j04and a52b06, and the wing-tail interferenceis treated by assuming onecompletely rolled-up vortex per wingpanel and evaluating the tail loadby strip theory .  a computing tableand set of design charts are presentedwhich reduce the calculationsto routine operations .  comparisonis made between the estimated andexperimental characteristics for alarge number of wing-body and wing-body-tailcombinations .  generallyspeaking, the lifts were estimated towithin 10 percent and the centersof pressure were estimated to withineffect of wing deflection on wing-tailinterference at supersonic speedswas not correctly predicted for triangularwings with supersonic leadingedges .
  this paper gives a brief summary of current loads information athypersonic speeds .  several methods which the designer can employ inestimating the loads on various aircraft components are discussed .  thepaper deals with the characteristics of both slender and bluntconfigurations and touches upon the effects of boundary-layer andaerodynamic interference .
  the postbuckling behavior of initially perfect, thin-walled,circular cylindrical shells under hydrostatic pressure is investigatedwith the aid of the principle of stationary potential energytogether with appropriate approximate deflection functions .calculations show that postbuckling equilibrium configurationsexist for loads greater than as well as loads slightly less than thecritical load calculated from small-deflection theory .  loadsless than the critical load are obtained only for a finite range of aparameter indicative of shell geometry .  for loads correspondingto radial displacements of the order of the shell thickness, it isfound that the number of circumferential waves remain essentiallyconstant with increasing deflection and equal to thenumber of waves developed at buckling .
  the supersonic aerodynamic characteristics of inclined bodiesof revolution at high angles of attack have been investigated inorder to provide a more basic understanding of the body vortexwake flow and its relation to the problem of body-wing interference.  the results of wind-tunnel tests, whereby the normalforce, pitching moment, normal force distributions, and the localflow properties in the vicinity of the body were determined, arediscussed and analyzed .  comparisons of experimental normal force coefficient andcenter of pressure data with values calculated in accordance withtheories which include methods for estimating the effects of viscosityshow that the accuracy of these estimates is strongly dependenton the body fineness ratio and the angle of attack .further comparisons of the distributions of theoretical and experimentallyderived cross-flow drag coefficients clearly show that,in general, the disagreement between experiment and existingtheories is due to the inadequate prediction of the magnitude anddistribution of the forces resulting from flow separation .  the circulation strengths of the concentrated vortices and thecirculation strengths of the vortex feeding sheets in the bodyvortex wake are determined by closed-contour velocity-perimeterintegrations for paths enclosing the vortex or the feeding sheet .the values of vortex strength calculated in this manner are inclose agreement with the values predicted by vortex strengthformulas written for a simple theoretical model for which it isassumed that the cross-flow in any plane along the cylindricalportion of the body is represented by the steady incompressiblepotential flow about a cylinder, two symmetrical vortices ofequal strength, and the attendant image vortices .  however,in computing these strengths it is necessary to use the vortexlocations and the viscous normal force distributions determinedfrom experiment .  the experimentally determined values of vortex strength are,in turn, used to calculate--by means of the aforementioned incompressiblecross-flow potential--the local flow inclinationangles which are in good agreement with the measured values,except in the vortex core, in the vicinity of the feeding sheet,and in regions for which transonic cross-flow velocities are expected.  a consideration of these various regions with simplemethods which account for the observed phenomena leads tosubstantial improvement in the agreement between theory andexperiment .  it is indicated that the complete vortex wake flow may be adequatelypredicted for a body of revolution (for conditions representedby the theoretical flow model), provided that the distributionof the viscous normal force and the vortex locations areaccurately known .
  the results of experiments on axial loading of cylindricalshells (thin enough to buckle below the elastic limit andtoo short to buckle as euler columns) are not in good agreementwith previous theories, which have been based on theassumptions of perfect initial shape and infinitesimal deflections.  experimental failure stresses range from 0.6to 0.15 of the theoretical .  the discrepancy is apparentlyconsiderably greater for brass and mild-steel specimensthan for duralumin and increases with the radius-thicknessratio .  there is an equally great discrepancy betweenobserved and predicted shapes of buckling deflections .  in this paper an approximate large-deflection theory isdeveloped, which permits initial eccentricities or deviationsfrom cylindrical shape to be considered .  true instabilityis, of course, impossible under such conditions,.the stress distribution is no longer uniform, and it isassumed that final failure takes place when the maximumstress reaches the yield point .  the effect of initial eccentricitiesand of large deflections is much greater than forthe case of simple struts .  measurements of initial eccentricitiesin actual cylinders have not been made,. however,it is shown that most of these discrepancies can beexplained if the initial deviations from cylindrical form areassumed to be resolved into a double harmonic series, andif certain reasonable assumptions are made as to the magnitudesof these components of the deviations .  withthese assumptions the failing stress is found to be a functionof the yield point as well as of the modulus of elasticityand the radius-thickness ratio .  on the basis of thisa tentative design formula (5) is proposel, which involvesrelations suggested by the theory but is based on experimentaldata .  it is shown that similar discrepancies between experimentsand previous theories on the buckling of thin cylindersin pure bending can be reasonably explained on thesame basis, and that the maximum bending stress canbe taken as about 1.4 times the values given by equationbuckling problems can probably be explained by similarconsiderations, and it is hoped that this discussion mayhelp to open a new field in the study of buckling problems .the large-deflection theory developed in the paper shouldbe useful in exploring this field, and may be used in otherapplications as well .  the paper presents the results of about a hundred newtests of thin cylinders in axial compression and bending,which, together with numerous tests by lundquist, formthe experimental evidence for the conclusions arrived at .
the report is a first attempt to devise a calculation methodfor representing the buckling behavior of cylindrical shellsof variable curvature .  the problem occurs, for instance, indimensioning wing noses, the stability behavior of which isdecisively influenced by the variability of curvature .  thecalculation is made possible by simplifying the stabilityequations (permissible for the shell of small curvature) andby assuming that the curvature as a function of the arclength s can be represented by a very few fourier terms .we evaluated the formulas for the special case of an ellipselikehalf oval with an axis ratio under compressionin longitudinal direction, shear, and a combination ofshear and compression .  however, the results can also beapplied approximately to an unsymmetrical oval-shell segmentunder compression, shear, and bending so that the numericalvalues contained in the diagrams 10 to 12 represent directlydimensioning data for the wing nose .
  a general theory is developed for the case of large deflectionsbut with rotations of the elements negligible compared to unity .  thederivation is carried out in tensor form and therefore any coordinatesystem on the surface of the shell can be used .  the effect of initialimperfections is included .  it is shown that for shells of negligiblegaussian curvature (shallow shells and developable surfaces), the problemcan be reduced to the solution of two fourth-order partial differentialequations in a stress function and the deflection normal to theshell .  for shells forming a surface of revolution the results areindicated in terms of the equation of the generating curve .  thedifferential equations for the conical shell are then listed .
  the author rewrites v. s. vlasov's equations for (linear)stability theory of shells (prikl. mat. meh. 8(1944), 109placements.  the result is a single eighth-order equationfor normal deflection, and two fourth-order equationsrelating the displacement components in the shell middlesurface to the normal displacement .
presented are the results of an experimentalinvestigation to determine the bucklingstrength of right circular cones under axialcompression .  correlation of these data ismade with existing theory and with previouslypublished experimental data on circularcylinders,. thus a recommended procedurefor predicting the buckling load of rightcircular cones under the foregoing loadingcondition is presented .
  advances in the practical development of boundary-layercontrol for the maintenance of extensive laminar flow have drawnattention to the problem of surface roughness, due not only toartificial irregularities such as rivet heads, lap joints, windowpanels, etc., but also to the kind generated in flight from impactwith insects .  this natural form of roughening, the effects of whichhave been noted, though not investigated previously, is the subjectof the present paper .  the phenomenon may be divided into two parts--namely,and (2) its effect upon the stability of the laminar boundarylayer .  wind-tunnel experiments with the fruit fly, drosophila,and the common housefly for the investigation of both (1) andairfoils are fully described .  the former problem has also beentreated mathematically in a separate paper, not yet published,agreement between theory and experiment being satisfactory inall essentials .  the characteristics of the roughness profile consist principallyof a pronounced peak near the leading edge, followed by an extensivearea of surface over which there is a much reduced andgradually diminishing value of the excrescence height .  further,it is shown that, if the severe leading-edge roughness, or its effectupon the boundary layer, can be eliminated, then the downstreamroughness causes no disturbance to the passage of a laminarlayer--i.e., the surface, though roughened, is aerodynamicallysmooth .  moreover, it appears that the conditions defining theupstream boundary to this region of insignificant roughness arefundamentally the same as those which determine the criticalstate for transition at an artificial disturbance of a three-dimensionalcharacter .
  we consider in this report thedetermination of the upper limit ofcritical loads in the case of simultaneousaction of a compressive force,uniformly distributed over plane crosssections, and of isotropic externalnormal pressure on cylindrical orconical shells of circular cross section.  as a starting point we usethe differential equations for neutralequilibrium of conical shells (ref. 1)which have been used for the solutionof the problem of stability of conicalshells under torsion and underaxial compression (ref. 2),. upon solutionof the problem it is possibleto satisfy all boundary conditions, incontrast to the report (ref. 3)where no attention is paid to the fulfillmentof the boundary conditionsand to the report (ref. 4) where only partof the boundary conditions aresatisfied by solution of the problemaccording to galerkin's method .approximate formulas are used for thedetermination of the criticalexternal normal pressure with simultaneousaction of longitudinal compression.  let us note that the formulassuggested in reference 5 arenot well founded and may lead, in a numberof cases, to a substantialmistake in the magnitude of the critical load .
the buckling of simply supported, thin, single- and multi-layer conicalshells under axially symmetrical loading is analyzed in this paper .the results are presented in a compact manner so that they may be easilyused for design and/or experimental purposes .  the results are comparedwith known experimental values .
  equations, somewhat more accurate than those recentlypresented by n. j. hoff, are derived for bending and bucklingof thin circular conical shells under arbitrary loading .these equations reduce to donnell's equations for thincylindrical shells when the cone semivertex angle becomesvery small and the minimum radius of curvature of themedian surface approaches a constant value .  at theother end of the scale the equations reduce to the wellknownequations for flat circular plates when the conesemivertex angle approaches a right angle .  in addition,for the entire range of cone semivertex angles the equationsreduce to the known equations for axisymmetricalbending when variations of the displacements around thecircumference vanish .  the problem of bending is reducedto the solution of a single fourth-order partial differentialequation with variable coefficients .
the problem of the buckling of thin circularconical frustums in pure torsion is solved ina manner similar to that employed previouslyby the author for buckling under uniformhydrostatic pressure .  synthesis of the numericalresults indicates that the critical torsionof a truncated cone is equal to that of anequivalent cylinder whose length and thicknessare the axial length and wall thickness ofthe cone and whose radius is a function of thesemivertex angle and the taper ratio of thecone .  curves and equations to aid in theanalysis of conical frustums are given .it is shown that a previous recommendation forthe analysis of truncated cones in torsionmay be seriously unconservative in some cases .
  calculations are presented for the problem of the stability ofconical shells subjected to combined external uniform hydrostaticpressure and axial tension or compression .  stress interactioncurves are found to vary only slightly as a function of theratio of the end radii of the cone .
in order to simplify the process of estimating the aerodynamicloading on the after portions of slender vehicles, it is frequentlyassumed that there is no nose-tail interaction .  it isthe purpose of this note to show that, aside from boundary-layereffects, this assumption is not warranted when the nose hypersonic-similarityparameter, tan, is of the order of unity, orgreater .  physically speaking, the entropy change associatedwith a strong bow wave reduces the stagnation pressure downstreamof the shock, and hence, lowers the dynamic pressure inthe vicinity of the tail .
  the problem of predicting the mean velocity on streamlinesthrough the pre-asymptotic turbulent free shear layer in two-dimensionalincompressible flow is resolved into two parts .  the linearizedmomentum equation in terms of a generalized axial co-ordinate issolved in the usual way .  a relation between and the distance fromthe separation point is then established analytically in contrast to theprevious use of empirical expressions .  it is shown that except in the region close to separation thevelocity on the streamlines can be predicted by the simple approximationproposed by kirk .
  an analytical study is made of viscous flow in slender channels.  similar solutions to the approximate equations of motion,valid for flow at moderate or high reynolds numbers in slenderchannels, are found for incompressible two-dimensional andaxisymmetric flows and for compressible flows through twodimensionalchannels with adiabatic walls .  a study of compressibleflows in convergent-divergent channels yields resultsregarding the effect of viscosity on the location of the sonic line,on the pressure ratio at the geometric throat and on the dischargecoefficient for such channels .
  data are presented on side forces generatedby secondary gas injection in a 15 conicalrocket exhaust nozzle .  the side force was measureddirectly with a force transducer and thedata examined in terms of an amplificationfactor, where is the measured effectivespecific impulse of injectant, and is thespecific impulse of injectant for sonic flow into avacuum .  injection was normal to the axisof the nozzle through a single circular orifice at afixed point in the diverging portion of the nozzle .a variety of ambient temperature gaseousinjectants and orifice diameters were carefully studied .injectant flow rate was varied for each configuration .the main propellant was hot gas (catalyticallydecomposed), and motor conditionswere held essentially constant .
  the momentum equation was uncoupled fromthe other conservation equations for the caseof a finite initial profile in a laminar free shear layer .the equation was solved numerically, inthe crocco coordinate system, using an implicitfinite difference method .  profiles of velocityand shear function were obtained as a function ofstreamwise distance .  the initial profiles asthe flow separates from the rear of the bodycorrespond to the blasius profile in transformedcoordinates .  for large distances downstream,the profiles approach the chapman distribution,corresponding to the case of zero initialfree shear layer thickness .  the effect of theseresults on calculations of base pressure and wakeangle is discussed .  a method for the calculationof finite chemical kinetic effects on theprofiles of temperature and chemical compositionin the free shear layer with finite initialthickness is outlined .
  closed-form solutions of theone-dimensional heat-conduction equationsfor the flow of heat into aplate with a laminar boundary layerhave been obtained for a configurationentering a planetary atmospherewith constant velocity and negativeentry angle .  the atmospheric densitywas assumed to obey an exponential lawand the temperature was assumedconstant initially .  the solution is inthe form of a fourier seriesexpansion which, for most practicalapplications, can be approximated byretaining only one term of the expression .the solution applies to theinitial part of the entry before the maximumheating conditions areencountered .
  a method of designing pump impellersis derived from the equations of motionand continuity for incompressible nonviscousrelative flow .  the flow is assumedto follow a known stream surface (representingblade shape) that extends from hubto shroud .  equations are also derived forapproximate blade-surface velocitiesand pressures .  a detailed numerical procedureand block diagram are given foruse on a digital computer .  a numerical examplethat illustrates limited use ofthe method is presented and further uses areindicated .
  the effect of a forward-facing jet onthe bow shock of a blunt body in amach 6 free stream was investigatedexperimentally .  the models tested had forwardfacingjets using air and helium exhaustingat mach numbers from 1 to 10.3 andwere run through a range of the ratio of jettotal pressure to free-stream totalpressure of 0.03 (jet off) to 2.5 .  the ratioof body diameter to jet-exit diametervaried from 1.12 to 55.6 and the angleof attack was varied from 0 to 35 .  the experimental results show that themain-stream shock can be affected bythe jet in two significantly different ways .one way is simply to move the strongshock away from the body without altering itsshape .  the second and perhaps moreinteresting case occurs when the jet causes alarge displacement of the main shockand considerably changes its shape .  it wasfound that the ratio of jet totalpressure to free-stream total pressure necessaryto obtain the large displacementsof the main-stream shock depended on the ratioof body diameter to jet-exit diameterand also on the jet-exit mach number .  themaximum amount the shock could bedisplaced in percent of body diameter was seento increase with increasing jetexitmach number and also with decreasing ratioof body diameter to jet-exit diameter.  for the models that were investigatedthrough an angle-of-attack range, thedisplacement became very unsteady and fell offsharply as the angle of attack wasincreased .  simplified theoretical considerations appliedto the shock-displacementphenomena provide a possible explanation for thetwo different types of mainstreamshock displacement .  theoretical curvesshow the regions where these typesof displacement would occur for different exitmach numbers and pressure ratiosfor a forward-facing jet in a mach 6 stream .
  axial force, normal force, pitchingmoment, and shock-wave shape weredetermined for a body of revolutionconsisting of a short blunt 10 semivertexangle cone with a flat base and also witha conical afterbody having a semivertexangle of 50 .  measurements weremade in helium at a free-stream machnumber of 15 and a free-stream reynoldsnumber of 2.25x10 based on maximum bodydiameter over an angle-of-attack range from  the configuration with the conicalafterbody was statically stable in thenose-forward attitude only, whereas theconfiguration with no afterbody wasstatically stable in both the nose-forwardand base-forward attitudes .  the forceand moment data of both shapes were predictedreasonably well by modifiednewtonian theory at all angles of attack,except the pitching-moment coefficientfor the model without afterbody near 180angle of attack .  in this region, measurementsindicated static stability, whereastheory indicated static instability .the helium data agreed reasonably well witha limited amount of force and momentdata obtained in a ballistic range at smallangles of attack in air at a machnumber of 15 and also with force and momentdata obtained in air over a completeangle-of-attack range at a mach number of 5.5 .the value of axial-force coefficientand the shape of the bow shock wave atzero angle of attack for both modelsobtained from a numerical flow field calculationagreed very well with the data .the value of the axial force coefficient at 180angle of attack for the modelwith afterbody agreed reasonably well with thetheoretical value for a cone .  theposition and shape of the shock envelope nearthe stagnation point also could bepredicted accurately by an approximate methodover an angle-of-attack range from
  panel flutter tests were conductedon two full-scale vertical stabilizersof the x-15 airplane at amach number of 3.0 in the langleyat dynamic pressures from 1,500 psfto 5,000 psf and stagnation temperaturesfrom 300 f to 660 f .  flutterboundaries were obtained for four ofthe five distinct types of panelswhich make up the vertical sides ofthe stabilizers .  the boundariesconsisted of a flat-panel boundaryand a thermally buckled-panel boundary.  the flat-panel boundaries werecharacterized by a reduction indynamic pressure with increasing skintemperature,. whereas, after thermalbuckling the trend was reversed .  theminimum dynamic pressure for flutteroccurred at the intersection ofthe flat-panel and buckled-panelboundaries and represented a largereduction in the dynamic pressureover the extrapolated, unstressed value .as a result of panel flutter,three of the five distinct types ofpanels were modified to provide therequired flutter margin on the designflight dynamic pressure of theaircraft .
  for initial stagnation pressuresup to 1,000 atmospheres and stagnationenthalpies up to 10,000 btu perpound, nozzle-flow properties forequilibrium air have been computed andplotted on charts .  the work ofnasa tn d-693 has been extended toinclude flow properties for closerintervals of specified stagnationenthalpies .  properties which have beencharted as a function of mach numberare as follows ..  temperature,pressure, density, velocity, area ratio,dynamic pressure, reynolds number,isentropic exponent, and molecular weightratio .  ratios of temperature,pressure, and density across normal shockwaves are also charted, andweight-flow rate is plotted as a functionof stagnation enthalpy .
  the creep-buckling times of initially straight, centrally loadedcolumns as predicted by the hypotheses of shanley, gerard,and rabotnov and shesterikov are compared with appropriateexperimental data .  it is found that the theoretical predictionsare generally conservative, due possibly to the fact that thehypotheses predict initial instability times while the experimentsnormally record final collapse times .  of the three hypotheses,that of gerard generally gives predictions which agree best withthe experimental data .
  a general theory of creep buckling, with the initial imperfectionas a parameter, is developed for the case of normal loading .a hyperbolic-sine law is used to describe the process of creep .  thetheory is believed to be applicable to, among other structures,columns, tubes, and possibly conical shells .  the wall of thestructure is idealized as a sandwich in order to simplify theintegration of the equations .  experimental data on columns and tubes, from two differentsources, are compared with the predictions of the theory .
  an analysis is presented for determining the collapse of circularrings and long cylinders subjected to primary and secondary creepconditions at elevated temperatures .  the types of loading consideredfor the present investigation are dead loading and hydrostaticpressure-type forces .  the method of solution is based onan application of the variational theorem for creep described inref. 1 with some additional terms being introduced for thepressure-type loading case .  the general results are reduced to arelatively simple form for the theoretical predictions of collapsetime and are graphically illustrated for a typical sample material .
  the general bending theory of shells under the influence ofinitial stress presented recently by herrmann and armenakasis applied in this investigation to study the effect of initial uniformcircumferential stress, uniform bending moment and uniformradial shear on the dynamic response of an infinitely longcylindrical shell .
  theoretical and experimental results are presentedfor the discontinuity stresses arising at achange of wall thickness in a cylinder, a cylinderhemispherejunction, and a cone-spherical torusjunction in pressure vessels .  the effect of mismatchof nonconcurrence of the middle surfaces of twojoined cylinders is considered .  in addition, a cylinderwith a special closure which has considerablyreduced stresses is described, and curves with theoreticaland experimental stresses are presented .
  recent theoretical and experimentalresearch is briefly describedto trace the development of deformationand the occurrence of collapse inpressurized circular cylindrical membranesunder applied moment loading .the collapse of pure membrane cylindersis then compared with instabilityof pressurized cylindrical shells .this approach leads to a better understandingof the behavior of pressurizedcylinders under bending loads .the results suggest possibilities forfurther research utilizing themembrane approach .
  theoretical buckling coefficientsare obtained for the general instabilityof simply supported, corrugatedcore sandwich circular cylindersunder combined loads with the coreoriented parallel to the longitudinalaxis of the cylinder .  bucklingcurves are presented for axialcompression, external lateral pressure,torsion, and some typical interactions.  the differential equations ofequilibrium used to obtain thebuckling equations were derived from thesmall deflection equations ofstein and mayer which include the effectof deformation due to transverseshear .  these equations are solvedby galerkin's equation .  remarksare made concerning the probablevalidity of the results of thesmall deflection theory for sandwich shells .
  the authors give a brief accountof some of their recent analytical andnumerical studies of cone buckling,limiting the discussion to axisymmetricdeformations .  pertinent numerical results for therelaxation buckling of full cones subjectedto uniform external pressure andbelleville springs deformed by axialedge loads are presented .  in addition,bifurcation buckling problems are discussed.  for a specific case, the existenceof friedrichs' intermediate bucklingload, as applied to cones, is established .upper and lower bounds forits value are given .
  a satellite vehicle is describedwhich collects gases from theupper atmosphere and stores them inliquid form .  such a vehiclecould serve as a filling station in space,furnishing liquid oxygen orair to other spacecraft .  the vehiclerepresents an alternative tolaunching these liquids into orbit fromthe surface of the earth .  thetwo methods are compared on aneconomic basis, and it is shown thatthe proposed vehicle permits substantialsavings when operated beyondabout one year .  the feasibility ofdeveloping such a system for longtimeoperation is investigated .  severalpractical designs are discussed .
  results of an experimental heat-transfer investigation in regionsof separated flow are presented and compared with thetheoretical analysis of naca tn 3792 .  the average heattransfer for both laminar and turbulent separated boundarylayers was found to be from 35 to 50 per cent less than that forequivalent attached boundary layers .  the overall scope of themeasurements included mach numbers from 0.3 to 4.0 andreynolds numbers from 10 to 4 x 10 .  the results for laminarboundary layers agree well with the analysis of tn 3792 .  theresults for turbulent boundary layers, however, disagree considerably.  results of velocity and temperature surveys in theseparated turbulent boundary layer are presented and partiallyexplain the discrepancy between the experiments and analysis .the maximum local heat-transfer rates were found to occur inthe reattachment region of the separated boundary layers investigated.  the effect of transition on heat transfer in the separatedlaminar boundary layers is described and data showing effectsof mach number and wall temperature on the transition reynoldsnumber of separated laminar flows are also included .
  a discussion of the integralrelations for flow of the boundarylayertype is presented .  it isshown that the characteristic laws ofspread of jets, wakes, and so forth,can be obtained directly for thelaminar case and, with the help ofdimensional reasoning, for the turbulentcase as well .  measurements of the mean velocity,the intensity and scale of theturbulent fluctuations, and of the turbulentshear in a two-dimensionalmixing zone are presented .  the results ofthese measurements are comparedwith the mixing-length theories .  itis shown that both mixinglength and exchange coefficient vary acrossthe mixing zone .  the theoriesbased on the assumption of constantmixing length or exchangecoefficient are thus in error .  a discussion of the energy balance ofthe fluctuating motion isgiven and the triple correlation is estimated .
  an analysis is made of turbulent constant pressure mixing for acompressible jet boundary, taking into consideration effects of theinitial boundary layer .  velocity profiles in the mixing region arerepresented in a transformed plans by one-parameter families of curves,with no specification for the mixing mechanism beyond that of an exchangecoefficient concept being made .  the exchange coefficient isrepresented by the bornel function of an integral transform for the xcoordinate of an intrinsic system of coordinates .  this intrinsicsystem and the physical coordinate system are related by means of amomentum integral .  satisfactory correlation of theory and experimental low-speed datais obtained with a simple form of kernal function .  an asymptotic solution, corresponding to a fully developed velocityprofile in the jet boundary, allows the calculation of the mechanicalenergy level along the separating streamline in the jet boundary withoutthe use of empirical information .
an approximation to the heat transfer rate across a laminarincompressible boundary layer, for arbitrary distribution ofmain stream velocity and of wall temperature, is obtained byusing the energy equation in von mises's form, and approximating thecoefficients in a manner which is most closely correct near thesurface .  the heat transfer rate to a portion of surface of length lbreadth is given aswhere k is the thermal conductivity of the fluid, o its prandtl number,p its density, u its viscosity, r(x) is the skin friction,and t(x) the excess of wall temperature over main stream temperature .a critical appraisement of the formula indicates that it should be veryaccurate for large, but that for of order 0.7 (for most gases) theconstant should be replaced by 0.73, when the error should not exceedthis yields a formula for nusselt number in terms of the reynolds numberr and the mean square root of the skin friction coefficient c, in thecase of uniform wall temperature .however, for the boundary layer with uniform main stream, theoriginal formula is accurate to within 3 percent even for .  byknown transformations an expression is deducted for heattransfer to a surface, with arbitrary temperature distributionalong it, and with a uniform stream outside it at arbitrarymach number (equation (42)) .  from this the temperature distributionalong such a surface is deduced in the case (of importance at high machnumbers) when heat transfer to it is balanced entirely by radiationfrom it .  this calculation, which includes the solution of a non-linearintegral equation, gives higher temperatures near the nose,and lower ones farther back (figure 2), than are found from a theorywhich assumes the wall temperature uniform and averages the heattransfer balance .  this effect will be considerably mitigatedfor bodies of high thermal conductivity., the author is notin a position to say whether or not it will be appreciable formetal projectiles .  but for stony meteorites at a certain stageof their flight through the atmosphere it indicates thatmelting at the nose and re-solidification farther back may occur, forwhich the shape and constitution of a few of them affords evidence .an appendix shows how the method for approximating and solvingvon mises's equation could be used to determine the skin frictionas well as heat transfer rate, but this line seems to have no advantageover established approximate methods .
authors extend variational principle of biot to various cases of heattransfer due to forced convection . numerical results are given forone-dimensional problems of fluid flowing between parallel walls withuniform or parabolic velocity profiles . agreement with exact solutionsis excellent .
a theory of rounded-entrance flowmeters, based on a consideration of the potential and boundary-layer flows in a converging nozzle, is constructed. curves are presented showing the discharge coefficient as afunction of diameter reynolds number, with the /total equivalent lengthtional length-diameter ratio of the contraction section of the asmelong-radius nozzle is presented . the theoretical curves of dischargecoefficient versus diameter reynolds number are in good agreement withexperiment over a range of reynolds number from 1 to 10  . the theoryprovides a rational framework for correlating and extrapolating experimentalresults,. it shows the effects of contraction shape andlocation of pressure taps,. it furnishes values of discharge coefficient for untested designs,. and it suggests precautions to be taken indesign, installation, and operation .
integration of the velocity profile at the throat of a flow nozzleyields the discharge coefficient as a function of the ratio of boundarysolution of the approximate momentum equation for the boundary layer .the resulting expression for the discharge coefficient is then a functionof the reynolds number based on nozzle diameter and of the geometry of the nozzle . good agreement is shown between this expression andpublished experimental data on flow nozzles for reynolds numbers between
an examination of the effects of compressibility, variable properties,and body forces on fully developed laminar flows has indicated severallimitations on such streams .in the absence of a pressure gradient, but presence of a body forceliquid this follows also for the case of a constant streamwise pressuregradient . these motions are exact in the sense of a couette flow . inthe liquid case two solutions /not a new result/ can occur for the sameboundary conditions . an approximate analytic solution was found whichagrees closely with machine calculations .in the case of approximately exact flows, it turns out that for largetemperature variations across the channel the effects of convection /due to, say, a wall temperature gradient/ and frictional heating must benegligible . in such a case the energy and momentum equations are separated,and the solutions are readily obtained . if the temperaturevariations are small, then both convection effects and frictional heatingcan consistently be considered . this case becomes the constantpropertyincompressible case /or quasi-incompressible case for freeconvectionflows/ considered by many authors .finally, there is a brief discussion of cases wherein streamwise variationsof all quantities are allowed but only in such form that the independentvariables are separable . for the case where the streamwisevelocity varies inversely as the square root of distance along thechannel, a solution is given .
a study is made of the steady laminar flow of a compressible viscousfluid in a circular pipe when the fluid is accelerated by an axialbody force . the application of the theory to the magnetofluidmechanicsof an electrically conducting gas accelerated by electric and magneticfields is discussed . constant viscosity, thermal conductivity, andelectrical conductivity are assumed . fully developed flow velocity andtemperature profiles are shown, and detailed results of the accelerating flow development, including velocity and pressure as functions of distance,are given for the case where the axial body force is constant and for the case where it is a linear function of velocity . from theseresults are determined the pipe entry length and the pressure difference required .
a comparison is made of several different propulsion systems for interplanetaryflight . liquid and solid propellant rockets, propulsion systemswhich use nuclear energy sources, are heating rockets, magnetoplasmadevices, ion rocket propulsion, solar heating rockets, and solarsails are briefly described and their current status reviewed . engineperformance requirements for different interplanetary missions are established. these several propulsion systems are then compared on thebasis of several performance criteria, environmental characteristics,vehicle requirements, reliability, current status, growth potential, and efficiency . predictions on various propulsion system capabilities andan analysis of multiple rocket engine reliability is included . it isconcluded that electrical rockets are superior for long-time interplanetaryflight applications, and that chemical rockets are satisfactoryfor most of the immediate applications in /near/ space . none of the several propulsion schemes discussed can be rejected until furthertechnical work has been accomplished .
  wind tunnel experiments with side-jets, issuing laterallynear the base of slender bodies in a supersonic stream, havesuggested the existence of a sizable and usable interaction .with this interaction force, the use of jet reaction controlsmay be as attractive for flight within the atmosphere as itobviously is for flight outside the atmosphere .  this noteindicates the altitude regime of interest and the order ofmagnitude of the interaction bonus for a lateral controljet located near the base of a body of revolution .
measurements were made of loads induced on a flat-plate wing by an airjet exhausting perpendicularly through the wing and normal to the freestreamflow . the investigation was conducted at a free-stream machnumber of 2.0 and a reynolds number per foot of 14.4 x 10 . an axiallysymmetric sonic nozzle and two supersonic nozzles were employed for thejets . the supersonic nozzles consisted of an axially symmetric nozzlewith exit mach number of 3.44 and a two-dimensional nozzle with exitmach number of 1.76 . the ratio of nozzle total pressure to free-streamstatic pressure was varied from 20 to 110 .negative loads were induced on the flat-plate wing by all the jets . asthe nozzle pressure ratio was increased the magnitude of interferenceloads due to jet thrust decreased . the chordwise center-of-pressurelocation generally moved toward the nozzle center line as the pressureratio was increased .
an investigation was made to determine the interference effects on surfacepressure distributions caused by a sonic jet exiting normal to thesurface . two configurations, a flat plate and an arrow-wing reentrytypevehicle, with sonic nozzles near the leading edge were tested overa range of pressure ratios and reynolds numbers for mach numbers fromthe data indicate that jet pressure ratio had considerable effect on the pressure levels and distributions on both configurations . also, for aconstant jet pressure ratio, the free-stream mach number effect on thedistributions and levels was quite large . over the limited range investigated,the effect of reynolds number at constant mach number andpressure ratio was small compared to the mach number and pressure ratioeffect .
an investigation of the effects of the interaction ahead of a twodimensionalsonic jet exhausting perpendicularly into a mach numberwere made at an angle of attack of 0degree at a reynolds number per foot of approximately 6 x 10 and with conditions of both transitional andturbulent separation on the flat plate . the ratio of jet stagnationpressure to free-stream static pressure was varied from 8 to 460 and the jet slot width was varied from 0.001 to 0.05 inch . the force ratio due to reaction of jet/, calculated ahead of the jet, was sizable andvaried from 0.5 to 9 . in general, the ratio increased with increasingpressure ratio and decreasing slot width . for the turbulent boundarylayerseparation tests it was found that the first peak pressure and the chordwise pressure distribution of the separated boundary layer aheadof the jet were similar to those for a separation caused by a forwardfacingstep at the same test conditions .
the experimentally determined interaction effects of a side jet exhaustingnear the base of an ogive-cylinder model are presented anddiscussed . the interaction force appears to be independent of mainstreammach number, boundary-layer condition /laminar or turbulent/,angle of attack, and forebody length . the ratio of interaction force to jet force is found to be inversely proportional to the square root ofthe product of jet stagnation-to-free-stream pressure ratio and jet-tobodydiameter ratio .
a study has been made of the side force generated by injection ofsecondary material into the main stream of a rocket nozzle . two caseshave been analyzed .. gas injection and liquid injection . for the gasinjection case, it is assumed that the turbulent boundary layer ahead of the injection point separates from the wall . the pressure in theseparated region and the extent of the separated region are determinedby a consideration of turbulent boundary layer-shock wave interactionand the accommodation height of the injected gas stream . equations arederived for calculating the side force, and the side forces predicted by the theory are compared with experimental data . the agreement betweentheory and experiment is fair . for the case of liquid injection, it isassumed that the liquid flows along the nozzle wall and evaporates intothe main stream . the resulting side force on the nozzle wall is determinedon the basis of linearized theory, thus restricting the analysisto small rates of liquid injection . the effects of small rates of heataddition are also included in the analysis . a very simple equation forcalculating the side force is obtained .
  with the assumptions that berthelot's equation of stateaccounts for molecular size and intermolecular force effects, andthat changes in the vibrational heat capacities are given by aplanck term, expressions are developed for analyzing onedimensionalflows of a diatomic gas .  the special cases of flow through normal and oblique shocksin free air at sea level are investigated .  it is found that up to amach number of 10 the pressure ratio across a normal shockdiffers by less than 6 percent from its ideal gas value,. whereasat mach numbers above 4 the temperature rise is considerablybelow and hence the density rise is well above that predictedassuming ideal gas behavior .  it is further shown that only thecaloric imperfection in air has an appreciable effect on thepressures developed in the shock process considered .  the effectsof gaseous imperfections on oblique shock flows are studied fromthe standpoint of their influence on the lift and pressure dragof a flat plate operating at mach numbers of 10 and 20 .  theinfluence is found to be small .
  at reynolds numbers greater than about 5 x 10 correspondingto altitudes below about 180,000 ft, the hot outer inviscidwake behind the bow shock wave produced by a blunt-nosedbody at hypersonic speeds is cooled mainly by turbulent diffusionand conduction .  turbulence originates in the inner wake formedby the coalescence of the free shear layers (or annulus) shed fromthe body surface when the boundary layer separates from thesurface .  as this turbulence spreads outward, it swallows enthalpyor momentum defect originally contained in the outerinviscid wake .  if the turbulence is locally similar--i.e., if itbehaves at each station like a slice of a low-speed /self-similar/wake--then the turbulent diffusivity grows from a low initialvalue near the body to a value corresponding to the total drag ofthe body at about 300 body diameters downstream .  at flightvelocities of the order of 9,000-10,000 ft per sec. the growth of theturbulent inner wake predicted on the basis of locally similarturbulence is in good agreement with shadowgraph measurementsof wake widths behind spheres obtained in ballistic ranges in theregion from 200 to 4,000 body diameters downstream of the body .tentatively, one concludes that the turbulence mechanism in thewake with respect to a fixed observer is similar to the low-speedcase, in spite of the large mean temperature gradients .  in order to illustrate the behavior of an observable such aselectron density in a turbulent wake behind a blunt body, thetwo limiting cases of thermodynamic equilibrium and pure diffusion(zero electron-ion recombination rate) are calculated form = 22 at altitudes of 100,000 and 200,000 ft .  even for thecase of thermodynamic equilibrium, the predicted turbulentradar trail length is about 200 body diameters at l-band (1,300mc) at 100,000-ft altitude and about 150 body diameters foruhf (400 mc) at 200,000 ft .  one interesting result is that thewidth of the plasma cylinder corresponding to the plasma requencyat l-band remains virtually constant at about 3.5 bodydiameters in the range 30 150 at 100,000-ft altitude .these results are sufficiently encouraging that one can considerincluding the effects of finite chemical and electron-ion recombinationrates in the analysis in order to give a more completepicture of the wake at hypersonic speeds .
  the boundary-layer equations fora steady two-dimensional motionare solved for any given initialvelocity distribution (distribution along anormal to the boundary wall,downstream of which the motion is to becalculated) .  this initial velocitydistribution is assumed expressibleas a polynomial in the distance fromthe wall .  three cases are considered ..first, when in the initial distributionthe velocity vanishes at the wall,but its gradient along the normaldoes not,. second, when the velocity inthe initial distribution does notvanish at the wall,. and third, when boththe velocity and its normal gradientvanish at the wall (as at a pointwhere the forward flow separatesfrom the boundary) .  the solution isfound as a power series in somefractional power of the distance alongthe wall, whose coefficients arefunctions of the distance from the wall tobe found from ordinary differentialequations .  some progress is madein the numerical calculation ofthese coefficients, especially in the firstcase .  the main object was tofind means for a step-by-step calculationof the velocity field in a boundarylayer, and it is thought that such aprocedure may possibly be successfuleven if laborious .  the same mathematicalmethod is used to calculatethe flow behind a flat plate along astream .  the results are shown incurves in the original .
a numerical solution is presented to the transient heat conduction equationfor a cylinder of finite thickness with one moving boundary .the implicit method of solution is developed with conductivity as anarbitrary function of temperature . application is made to a sample case of re-entry heating encountered by aerodynamic bodies, with erosion bysublimation and combustion occurring at the body surface .
it has been established in the past that there is a certainrelationship between base pressure and boundary-layer behavior.  the base-pressure and wake-flow conditions werefound to be dependent upon the local flow characteristics at thesurface of supersonic vehicles directly upstream of the base or ofthe region of wake-flow separation .  in order to use existing data on cones and other shapes to predictwake angle and base pressure on blunt bodies, an attempt wasmade recently at the naval ordnance laboratory to establisha unique relationship between given local flow conditions at thedownstream end of sharp and blunt cones at supersonic speedsand the corresponding wake-flow conditions with zero heat transfer.
a method of calculating the temperature of thick walls has beendeveloped in which are used relatively new concepts, such as the timeseries and the response to a unit triangle variation of surface temperature,together with essentially standard formulas for transienttemperature and heat flow into thick walls . the method can be usedwithout knowledge of the mathematical tools of its development . themethod is particularly suitable for determining the wall temperature inone-dimensional thermal problems in aeronautics where there is a continuousvariation of the heat-transfer coefficient and adiabatic-walltemperature . the method also offers a convenient means for solving theinverse problem of determining the heat-flow history when temperaturehistory is known .a series of diversified problems were solved by exact analysis as wellas by the new method . a comparison of the results shows the newmethod to be accurate . the labor involved is very modest in considerationof the nature of the thick-wall temperature problem .limiting solutions for the /infinitely thick/ wall and for walls sothin that thermal lag can be neglected were also obtained .
design charts based on the analytical solution to the problem of onedimensionalheat flow in a solid body of constant material propertieswith time-dependent boundary conditions were presented by kaye andyeh . this solution dealt with aerodynamic heating at hypersonic speedswhere the surface coefficient of heat transfer and the temperaturepotential were taken to be linear functions of time of flight . in order to make these charts of more general application, general solutions are presented which, together with the charts, enable rapid and reasonableestimates to be made of the transient temperature distributions in manypractical cases .
during high speed entry into the earth's atmosphere, a vehicle can beafforded thermal protection for the short period of entry heating by athick outer skin, sometimes called a /heat sink/ . the temperaturedistribution in such a heat sink has been found by integrating theproduct of the laminar aerodynamic heating rate and the appropriategreen's function for a finite-thickness wall over the generalizedtrajectory for a vehicle entering the earth's atmosphere at high speedsdimensional heat conduction problem for laminar heating . the maximumsurface temperature that occurs during the generalized entry trajectoryfor any combination of wall thickness and thermal properties is obtainedfrom which the performance of any material can be found, provided thatthe average thermal properties may be used . as an example of the use of the solution, the performance of copper, graphite, molybdenum andtungsten are compared .
the original paper gave a correlation formula for stagnation point heattransfer rate to a blunt body of revolution in hypersonic flow . thisnote gives a somewhat refined version, based on further calculation andshock tube data . its effect on the conclusions of the original paper is negligible except at surface temperature parameters of over 5000r-ft1/8 . in other problems, where heat transfer rate itself is important,it can make a significant defference .
a method is presented for analysis of the compressible flow between thehub and the shroud of mixed-flow impellers of arbitrary design . axialsymmetry was assumed, but the forces in the meridional /hub to shroud/plane, which are derived from tangential pressure gradients, were takeninto account .the method was applied to an experimental mixed-flow impeller . theanalysis of the flow in the meridional plane of the impeller showed that the rotational forces, the blade curvature, and the hub-shroud profilecan introduce severe velocity gradients along the hub and the shroudsurfaces . choked flow at the impeller inlet as determined by theanalysis was verified by experimental results .
a rapid approximate method for the design of centrifugal compressors ofgiven blade shape with compressible nonviscous flow characteristics hasbeen developed using techniques based upon stream-filament theory .axial symmetry is assumed, but meridional-plane forces derived fromtangential pressure gradients are included .the method was applied to the design of an impeller in order to determinethe approximate maximum meridional streamline spacing thatcould be used . three numerical solutions for different streamlinespacings were made using the same hub profile, blade shape, and prescribedvelocity distribution along the hub . the shroud profiles obtainedfrom the three solutions, which utilized 3, 5, and 9 streamtubes,were negligibly different . the approximate computing time requiredwas 15 hours per streamtube .
three centrifugal impellers with parabolic, circular, and skewedparabolicblading were modified by a recently developed design procedure to reduce the velocity gradients along the hub from inlet to outlet .all original dimensions except the shroud contours were retained . experimentalinvestigation showed that the modified impellers had betterperformance characteristics than the original impellers at all speedsinvestigated, the greatest gains occurring at speeds of 1300 feet persecond and higher . these large gains probably resulted primarily frommore favorable velocity gradients and from designing these impellersfurther away from the condition necessary for eddy formation . themodified impellers were thus able to operate over a wider range ofweight flows at high speeds .the modified impellers were investigated over a range of equivalentspeeds of 900 to 1500 feet per second and flow rates from maximum to the point of incipient surge . at 1300 feet per second, the peak pressureratio and maximum adiabatic temperature-rise efficiency for the parabolic-bladedimpeller were 3.07 and 0.825, respectively . for the sameconditions, the circular-bladed impeller and the skewed-parabolic-bladed impeller had pressure ratios of 3.13 and 3.15 and efficiencies of 0.737 and 0.805, respectively . of the three, the parabolic-bladed impellerhad the highest maximum efficiencies /0.854 to 0.800/ and the bestweight-flow range over the speed range tested . on the basis of theparameters investigated, it appears that parabolic blading is superiorto circular blading . the experimental results indicate that the designmethod of naca tn 3399 is a reliable method for use in designing centrifugalimpellers .
a general theory of steady three-dimensional flow of a nonviscous fluidin subsonic and supersonic turbomachines having arbitrary hub and casing shapes and a finite number of blades is presented . the solution of the three-dimensional direct and inverse problem is obtained by investigatingan appropriate combination of flows on relative stream surfaceswhose intersections with a z-plane either upstream of or somewhere insidethe blade row form a circular arc or a radial line . the equationsobtained to describe the fluid flow on these stream surfaces showclearly the several approximations involved in ordinary two-dimensionaltreatments . they also lead to a solution of the three-dimensionalproblem in a mathematically two-dimensional manner through iteration .the equation of continuity is combined with the equation of motion ineither the tangential or the radial direction through the use of astream function defined on the surface, and the resulting equation ischosen as the principal equation for such flows . the character of thisequation depends on the relative magnitude of the local velocity ofsound and a certain combination of velocity components of the fluid . ageneral method to solve this equation by both hand and high-speeddigital machine computations when the equation is elliptic or hyperbolic is described . the theory is applicable to both irrotational and rotationalabsolute flow at the inlet of the blade row and at both designand off-design operations .
the nonviscous incompressible flow through a typical pump impeller isanalyzed on a blade-to-blade surface of revolution . solutions are obtainedfor a variety of inlet conditions including several with prewhirl of the assumed location of the rear stagnation point . comparison ofresults from two approximate methods of analysis showed good agreementfor the zero-angle-of-attack case and reliable indication of theexistence of an eddy on the driving face at a large positive angle ofattack .
the nonviscous flow through a mixed-flow pump impeller having onesplitter vane between adjacent main blades has been analyzed on ablade-to-blade surface of revolution using a previously reportedanalysis method . solutions were obtained for a variety of flowconditions including several cases in which whirl is imparted to theflow upstream of the impeller .the velocity distributions on the main-blade surfaces and on thesplitter-vane surfaces in the region of the splitter vane were stronglydependent on the assumed location of the rear stagnation points . solutionswere obtained by assuming values of slip factor and of division of flow around the splitter in addition to assuming the location of therear stagnation points . these solutions indicated that the velocitydistributions in the splitter-vane region are largely determined by thedivision of flow around the splitter vane and that only the region inthe immediate vicinity of the trailing edge is affected by the slipfactor .blade surface velocities were obtained from two approximate methods byspecifying flow division and slip factor, and these results are compared with the more exact solutions of the analysis .
a rapid approximate method of analysis was developed for both compressibleand incompressible, nonviscous flow through radial- or mixedflowcentrifugal compressors with arbitrary hub and shroud contours andwith arbitrary blade shape . the method of analysis is used to determine approximately the velocities everywhere along the blade surfaces, butno information concerning the variation in velocity across the passagebetween blades is given .in eight numerical examples for two-dimensional flow, covering a fairlywide range of flow rate, impeller-tip speed, number of blades, and blade curvature, the velocity distribution along the blade surfaces wasobtained by the approximate method of analysis and compared with thevelocities obtained by relaxation methods . in all cases the agreementbetween the approximate solutions and the relaxation solutions wassatisfactory except at the impeller tip where the velocities obtained by the approximate method did not, in general, become equal on both surfacesof the blade as required by the joukowski condition .
a study was made at transonic speeds by the naca wing-flow method of the pressure-drag reduction obtained by projecting a high-energy jet of air from the nose of a prolate spheroid . supplementary information wasobtained by taking shadowgraphs of the model mounted in a small supersonictunnel at a constant mach number of 1.5 .the high-velocity jet was observed to alter the pressure distributionover the body in such a way that the pressure drag of the body wasreduced,. thus, in a restricted sense, the nose jet produced a thrust on the body . under the conditions investigated, the thrust produced bythe nose jet was never so large as that which would be expected from aconventional rearward jet . for example, under the best conditionstested /mach number of 1.07/ the reduction in body pressure drag causedby the nose jet more than compensated for the negative thrust of the jet itself . however, the magnitude of the net reduction in drag /change in body pressure drag with jet on and jet off minus the adverse thrust ofthe jet/ was only about one-half of the thrust which would be producedby the same jet exhausting rearward . the appearance of such an unexpectedlylarge effect in the first trial indicated the phenomenon to beworth further study .
an investigation has been made at a mach number of 1.62 to determinethe effects of a small jet of air exhausting from the nose of anelliptical body of revolution upon boundary-layer transition and theviscous, pressure, and total drag of the forebody at three body stationsbody nose were also obtained . the tests were conducted at reynoldsnumbers of 2.13 x 10 and 7.66 x 10, based on body length . the maximumrange of thrust coefficients for the small jet was from 0 to aboutat the lower test reynolds number, for which the boundary layer waslaminar over the entire body in the jet-off condition, a very small flow from the jet moved the point of transition forward to the vicinity ofthe 20-percent-body station . as the jet flow was increased, the transitionpoint moved abruptly to the nose at a thrust coefficient of aboutgardless of the type of boundary layer . at the higher test reynoldsnumber for which the boundary layer was largely turbulent in the jet-off condition the total drag, including skin friction, was reduced somewhat by the action of the jet .although the forward-exhausting small jet was found to have the abovefavorable effects upon the drag, these findings are not believed tooimportant since the question arises as to the benefits of the same small jet exhausting from the rear of the body in the conventional manner .no attempt was made to establish geometric optimums in the presentinvestigation, yet, from a general consideration of the benefits indicatedby the present results and the phenomena known to occur in thevicinity of rearward-exhausting jets, the benefits of a small jet exhaustingrearward would appear to exceed those of the same small jetexhausting forward, particularly so when the flow over the body islaminar in the jet-off condition .
     an investigation has been made to determine jet effects on cylindricalafterbodies housing sonic and supersonic nozzles which exhaustagainst a supersonic stream at angles of attack from 90 to 180 . thetests were conducted at a free-stream mach number of 2.91 and at freestreamreynolds numbers, based on body diameter, of 0.15x106 andstream static pressure investigated was from jet off to about 400 .    the data presented herein showed that, in general, variation of theratio of jet total pressure to free-stream static pressure, jet-exitmach number, and ratio of jet-exit diameter to body diameter had largeinfluences on the body pressures on the windward halves of the afterbodiesand negligible influences on the leeward pressures . there was anegligible effect of reynolds number on the body pressures . the ratioof jet total pressure to free-stream static pressure also had a largeinfluence on the base pressures at all angles of attack . schlierenstudies showed details of the shock-wave structure caused by the jetand the extent of the jet interference flow fields .
the pressure distribution and pressure drag of a blunt body with asupersonic jet issuing upstream from its center were determined atfree-stream mach numbers of 1.60, 2.00, and 2.85 . the thrust of the jet issuing from the model nose was varied to study its effects on flowaround the model and to determine variation of pressure distribution and pressure drag of the model with the thrust .at all mach numbers investigated, the pressure drag decreased withincreasing retrorocket thrust until a minimum value was reached .further increases in retrorocket thrust resulted in increases in thepressure drag . the resultant drag /pressure drag plus retrorocketthrust but excluding base and skin-friction drag/ of the model wasreduced by retrorocket operation below the drag for a jet-off condition, except at very low retrorocket thrust coefficients . the flow about the nose of the blunt body was very unstable throughout the range of machnumbers and retrorocket thrust coefficients investigated .
placeholder
  an experimental investigation hasbeen made of the separation phenomenaon a flat plate to which forwardfacingsteps were attached toforce separation .  both laminar andturbulent flows were investigatedover a mach number range of approximatelydistributions, shadowgraph and chemicalfilm techniques, the pressurerise at separation, the laminar plateaupressure, and the turbulentpeak pressure were determined .  boundarylayersurveys were made on asmooth flat plate and on a flat plate withroughness to force transition.  examinations of the separated flowshowed that the predominantvariable in the determination of the pressuredistribution was the locationof transition relative to the separationpoint and reattachment .pure laminar, transitional, and turbulenttypes of separation were foundin this mach number range .  the peak staticpressure-riseratios foridentical forward-facing steps at a machnumber of 6.25 were approximately1.5 and 5.0, respectively, for purelaminar and turbulent separation.  the effect of reynolds number on thepeak pressure rise for turbulentseparation for the lower mach numberrange was found to be veryminor provided the step height was of theorder of the boundary-layerthickness .  as the mach number is increased,the peak pressure coefficientfor turbulent separation decreasedfrom approximately 0.18at a mach number of 4 to about 0.13 at a machnumber of 6.25 .  the pressurecoefficient at the separation point forlaminar separation decreasesfrom approximately 0.014 at a mach number ofvalue at a mach number of 6.5 .  the resultsobtained with forward-facingsteps agree with the trends predicted, basedupon lower mach numberstudies .
some experimental and theoretical studies have been made of axisymmetric free jets exhausting from sonic and supersonic nozzles into still airand into supersonic streams with a view toward problems associated withpropulsive jets and the investigation of these problems .for jets exhausting into still air, consideration is given to theeffects of jet mach number, nozzle divergence angle, and jet staticpressureratio upon jet structure, jet wavelength, and the shape andcurvature of the jet boundary . studies of the effects of the ratio ofspecific heats of the jets are included as are observations pertainingto jet noise and jet simulation .for jets exhausting into supersonic streams, an attempt has been made to present primarily theoretical curves of the type that may be useful inevaluating certain jet interference effects and in formulating experimentalstudies . the primary variables considered are jet mach number,free-stream mach number, jet static-pressure ratio, ratio of specificheats of the jet, nozzle exit angle, and boattail angle . the simulation problem and the case of a hypothetical hypersonic vehicle are examined
  this report, which is a revision and extension of naca tnuseful in the analysis of high-speed flow of a compressible fluid .the equations provide relations for continuous one-dimensionalflow, normal and oblique shock waves, and prandtl-meyerexpansions for both perfect and imperfect gases .  the tablespresent useful dimensionless ratios for continuous one-dimensionalflow and for normal shock waves as functions of machnumber for air considered as a perfect gas .  one series of chartspresents the characteristics of the flow of air (considered a perfectgas) for oblique shock waves and for cones in a supersonic airstream .  a second series shows the effects of caloric imperfectionson continuous one-dimensional flow and on the flowthrough normal and oblique shock waves .
  wind-tunnel tests have been performedat mach numbers from 0.6 to 5.5to determine coefficients of normal force,axial force, and pitchingmoment for short blunt cones, as affectedby changes in nose and basecone angles .  models with nose half-anglesof 10 and 20 were investigated .the 10 nose half-angle models were testedwith a flat base and with basecones of 50 and 70 half-angle .  the 20nose half-angle model had a 50half-angle base cone .  reynolds numbersfor the test ranged from aboutmaximum diameter .  variations in the base cone angleresulted in significant changes inthe aerodynamic characteristics, withlesser effects resulting from changesin nose cone angle .  in particular,the model with the 50 half-angleconical base had only one trim angleflat base and 70 half-angle conicalbase had two trim angles (a = 0 anda = 180) .  estimated variations ofthe aerodynamic characteristics withangle of attack by means of a modifiednewtonian theory were in goodagreement with the experimental results .the theory, however, failed topredict the trim point at a = 180 forthe flat-based model .
tests were made of a short blunt-nosedwithout a 50 half-angle conical afterbodyin a pressurized ballisticrange at nominal mach numbers of 3.5 andof 90,000 and 220,000, respectively .  itwas found that the models werestatically stable about the center-ofgravitylocation tested but exhibitedneutral dynamic stability for flightat constant altitude .  thestatic stability was not affected by thebut was nonlinear with angle of attackand varied with mach number .  thenonlinear variation of the pitching momentwith angle of attack was accuratelyapproximated by a cubic polynomial .the static stability was onlyqualitatively predicted by modified newtoniantheory .  the drag characteristicswere in good agreement with valuescalculated by use of modifiednewtonian theory .  calculations of the oscillatorybehavior of the configurations flyingan example entry trajectory throughthe martian atmosphere indicated theconfigurations to be dynamicallysatisfactory .  pitching motions shouldconverge to a small fraction of theamplitude at entry, provided theinitial angle of attack and pitchrate are not large enough to causetumbling .
the static and dynamic stability characteristics of a blunted 10degreesemivertex angle cone were studied . the cone which had a modifiedspherical segment nose was tested with a flat base and with a truncatedconical base .all tests were performed in air at mach numbers from 0.65 to 2.20 withthe angle-of-attack range from -4degree to +18degree . presented aremeasurements of the normal force, axial force, base pressure, andpitching moment from the static tests, and the damping-in-pitch momentfrom the dynamic tests .both models had satisfactory stability characteristics throughout thetest mach number range but the addition of the conical afterbody had alarge destabilizing effect .
generally accepted solutions for the problems of hypersonic flightappear, at the moment, to be centered around the use of blunt bodies tominimize the heat-transfer rates . there are, however, several othersolutions to the problem, and, as part of an exploratory study of thesesolutions, a detailed examination has been made of the flow over bluntbodies equipped with a spike . these tests, carried out at a mach number of about 14 in the princeton helium hypersonic tunnel, have investigatedthe effect of varying spike lengths for flat-faced and hemispherically-nosedaxially symmetric bodies . detailed pressure distributionshave been obtained as well as heat-transfer rates .these exploratory studies have shown that the use of a spike protrudingfrom a hemispherical-nosed cylinder at m 14 decreased the pressurelevel by an order of magnitude and the heat transfer to a fraction ofthat measured on a hemisphere without a spike . the general techniqueappears to hold considerable promise for hypersonic flight .
  the real-gas hypersonic flow parameters for helium have been calculatedfor stagnation temperatures from 0 f to 600 f and stagnationpressures up to 6,000 pounds per square inch absolute .  the results ofthese calculations are presented in the form of simple correction factorswhich must be applied to the tabulated ideal-gas parameters .  ithas been shown that the deviations from the ideal-gas law which existat high pressures may cause a corresponding significant error in thehypersonic flow parameters when calculated as an ideal gas .  forexample, the ratio of the free-stream static to stagnation pressure ascalculated from the thermodynamic properties of helium for a stagnationtemperature of 80 f and pressure of 4,000 pounds per square inchabsolute was found to be approximately 13 percent greater than thatdetermined from the ideal-gas tabulation with a specific heat ratio of
  the effects of contamination of helium by air upon static-pressure,total-pressure, heat-transfer, and temperature measurements have beeninvestigated in the 2-inch helium tunnel at the langley researchcenter .  within the scope of the tests, even a small amount of air isshown to affect these measurements .  the heat-transfer and temperaturemeasurements were made on a 26.6 half-angle cone and demonstrated theeffects of contamination qualitatively .  the wall static and centerlinepitot pressures show that if the contaminating air is held to lessthan about 0.2 percent by volume, the error in indicated mach number isless than 1 percent as calculated from the rayleigh pitot equation .the corresponding errors in wall static and center-line pitot pressuresare about 1.7 and 0.4 percent, respectively .
  equations based on newtonian impact theory have been derived and acomputational procedure developed with the aid of several design-typecharts which enable the determination of the aerodynamic forces andmoments acting on arbitrary bodies of revolution undergoing either separateor combined angle-of-attack and pitching motions .  bodies withaxially increasing and decreasing cross-sectional area distributions areconsidered,. nose shapes may be sharp, blunt, or flat faced .  theanalysis considers variations in angle of attack from -90 to 90 andallows for both positive and negative pitching rates of arbitrarymagnitude .  the results are also directly applicable to bodies ineither separate or combined sideslip and yawing maneuvers .
  the inviscid flow of a perfect gas over blunt-nosed axisymmetricand two-dimensional bodies at zero angle of attack has been calculatednumerically on an ibm 7090 computer .  the computation consisted of thefuller blunt-body solution for the subsonic and transonic regions andthe method of characteristics for the supersonic region .  the flowfields about a number of blunt bodies were studied, and the calculatedresults showed good agreement with experimental shock-wave shapes,surface-pressure distributions, and flow-field surveys .
  this report presents equations, tables, and figures for use in theanalysis of helium flow at supersonic and hypersonic speeds .  the contentsof the report and presentation of the data parallel that of asimilar reference work (naca rep. 1135) prepared for air flow .  the perfect-gas relations for continuous one-dimensional flow,normal- and oblique-shock waves, and prandtl-meyer expansions are thesame as for air but are presented here for completeness .  the tablespresent the values of useful dimensionless ratios for continuous onedimensionalflow and for normal-shock waves as functions of machnumber .  the helium viscosity relation as a function of temperature,mass-flow rates as a function of mach number and temperature, and thereynolds number as a function of mach number and stagnation temperatureare plotted .  the oblique-shock characteristics of wedges and cones inhelium at mach numbers of 12, 16, 20, and 24 are presented in a seriesof plots .  throughout all the computations, helium is considered to bea perfect gas .
  representative experimental results are presented to show the currentstatus of the panel flutter problem .  results are presented forunstiffened rectangular panels and for rectangular panels stiffened bycorrugated backing .  flutter boundaries are established for all typesof panels when considered on the basis of equivalent isotropic plates .the effects of mach number, differential pressure, and aerodynamicheating on panel flutter are discussed .  a flutter analysis of orthotropicpanels is presented in the appendix .
  charts of thermodynamic properties for equilibrium air are presentedwith sufficient accuracy to permit the calculation of flow parameters inhypersonic nozzles operating at stagnation temperatures up to 4,950 rand pressures up to 1,000 atm .  flow parameters calculated from thesecharts are presented for a series of stagnation temperatures betweenuse of these parameters, it is possible to calibrate a nozzle in theconventional way .  a method is also presented from which the flowparameters for conditions other than those chosen herein may becalculated .  real-gas effects on the calculation of a hypersonic nozzlecontour are shown by an example calculation in which the nozzle contourfor mach number 12 was determined by including real-gas effects, andthis contour was compared with one calculated by ideal-gasconsiderations .  also presented are the approximate limiting machnumbers at which equilibrium air will just condense for variouscombinations of stagnation temperatures and pressures .
  air-flow properties in nozzles were calculated and charted forequilibrium flow and two types of frozen flows .  in one type of frozenflow, air was assumed to be in equilibrium from the nozzle reservoir toarbitrary points where chemical reactions and molecular vibrationsbecame frozen .  in the other type, it was assumed that molecularvibrations were in equilibrium throughout the nozzle and that chemicalreactions became frozen at arbitrary points .  the calculations weremade for a range of stagnation pressures up to 10,000 poinds per squareinch absolute and stagnation enthalpies up to 24,500 btu per pound .the flow properties charted were temperature, pressure, density,velocity, dynamic pressure, mach number, reynolds number, molecularweight fraction, and mass flow .  equilibrium flow properties throughnormal shock waves were also included .
  charts have been prepared relating the thermodynamic properties ofair in chemical equilibrium for temperatures to 15,000 k and for pressuresfrom 10 to 10 atmospheres .  also included are charts showingthe composition of air, the isentropic exponent, and the speed ofsound .  these charts are based on thermodynamic data calculated by thenational bureau of standards .
  the possibility of a gradual instabilityfailure of a column under compressiveload has been recognizedfor some time .  marin presented ananalysis of creep buckling based ona theory of creep bending, but did nottake into account the average stressdue to axial loading .  the theory alsoneglected the transient (nonlinear)portion of the creep curve .  in efficient column design, theaverage stress should be relatively high incomparison with the bending stresses,.that is, the column should be as straightas possible and the slenderness ratioshould not be too great .  under theseconditions marin's theory is notdirectly applicable, although it gives goodagreement with tests of columnshaving large slenderness ratios or largeeccentricities .
  published work on creep buckling has implied that failureof columns after a critical time is caused by initial imperfections .such analyses are relatively complex and ultimately leave thechoice of selecting the proper value of the initial imperfection tothe designer .  furthermore, recent test results on creep bucklingof columns have indicated that there is a random and relativelyunimportant effect of small initial imperfections on the criticaltime .  to avoid the difficulties associated with initial imperfections,a formulation of the creep buckling phenomenon in terms ofclassical stability theory is presented .  the theory permits theextension of known solutions for plastic buckling of certain thinplates and shells to creep buckling problems .
a problem of creep stability of columns and platesis considered .  in an analysis use is madeof two forms of the creep theory based on the strainhardening hypothesis .  for a uniformly compressedpalte a comparison is made between theresults according to the flow theory and straintheory .
  the determination of column deflections andcolumn buckling loads has been considered formany years .  the available theories, however,do not provide for materials which creep withtime under constant loads .  for the design ofstructural members made of these materials, aconsideration of creep may be of practicalimportance .  plastics, concrete, and some metalscreep at normal temperatures while othermetals creep only at high temperatures and at stressvalues beyond the yield point .  a considerationof creep in the design of some structures appearsappropriate in view of the modern developmentsin plastics and the presence of high stress valueswhich are sometimes beyond the yield stress .this paper gives a rational theory for predictingcreep deflections in columns .  a special caseusing this theory is applied to the interpretation ofsome preliminary tests of an aluminum alloy .
  the relation of the time-dependent tangent-modulusload--as conceived by shanley--to actual column capacityis clarified .  it may be interpreted as a limiting case of theconservative estimate .  the time-dependent tangentmodulusload is, therefore, an approximation to a conservativeestimate .  the approximation, however, maybe either conservative or nonconservative when appliedto imperfect or real columns .  typical cases are discussedand experimental results for two alloys are cited .
it appears from librove's interesting analysis that, forthe case of creep buckling of columns, the initial imperfectionscontained in ordinary columns provide the mechanism bywhich failure due to creep occurs after a period of time .  in fact,it can be concluded from this analysis that a theoretically perfectcolumn that is initially loaded below the time-independent criticalload will not buckle at all .  this is an interesting contrast to thecase of static buckling where small initial imperfections play aninsignificant role, since the failing load of an initially imperfectcolumn is substantially the same as that of a theoretically perfectcolumn .  it is of interest, therefore, to conjecture whether there isany possible mechanism by which a column containing no initialimperfections can fail as a result of creep when the initial load isless than the theoretical buckling load .
  the results of short-time elevated-temperature creep tests ofobjective of obtaining procedures for predicting column lifetime .semiempirical lifetime curves are obtained with the aid of a previouslypublished column creep theory and are used for deriving column curves .the semiempirical lifetime curves are also used to study the effect ofvarying applied stress and out-of-straightness .  in the rangeconsidered, small variations in out-of-straightness are found to be oflittle practical significance,. whereas, small stress variations changethe column lifetime considerably .  for the range of out-of-straightnessencountered in the tests, the data can be presented in plots that do notexplicitly include out-of-straightness, and plots of this type should besatisfactory for predicting column lifetime for design purposes .
  a method for estimating allowableload capacities of columns subjectto creep is presented .  the method,which utilizes approximate stress distributionsderived from isochronousstress-straincurves to estimatecolumn load capacities, is shown tobe conservative for the time for whichthe estimate is made .  an application of the method ismade to test data on as-received andon stabilized 24s-t4 aluminum alloy .a comparison of the computed columncapacities with experimental capacitiesindicates that the method is satisfactoryfor estimating the decrease incapacity with increasing time .  easily obtained, time-dependent tangentmodulusloads are discussed .they are interpreted as being approximationsto allowable load-capacityestimates .  a limited application is made totest data, and the resultsappear promising .  it is concluded that ifcertain limitations are recognized,the method may prove to be useful becauseof its simplicity .  a presentation of the results of anexperimental investigation of theeffects of column imperfection and columnmaterialvariation is made .  itis found that column-capacity variations ofthe order of 10 per cent canresult from column-imperfection differencesand column-material variation .  the results of an experimental study ofthe variation of column capacitywith temperature of exposure are presented .they indicate that columnefficiency, as measured by decrease in capacity,can be acceptable for veryshort times at the higher temperatures .  theefficiency at these higher temperaturesfalls rapidly, however, with increasing time .
  the results of short-time creepbucklingand creep-bending tests ofslenderness ratio 111 are presented .the tests were performed at 600 f,and strain measurements were takenwith high-temperature electric-resistancestrain gages .  a descriptionof the development of the gages is givenin an appendix .  the columntests show that the critical time decreasesmuch more rapidly withincreasing load than with increasing initialdeviation from straightness .the bending tests indicate that the steadycreep rate of the curvatureis a simple power function of appliedmoment .  these latter results,together with a previously derived creepbucklingtheory, are used todevelop a semiempirical formula suitableas a guide for the determinationof the critical time for columns .
  this paper describes theory and tests of the creep collapseof long thin aluminum-alloy cylinders under external radialpressure .  steady-state creep is assumed in the theoretical derivation.  the test temperatures were between 300 and 500 f .the collapse time for each cylinder was calculated theoretically .agreement between theoretical and test results was fair .
  forty-three cylinders of 40-inchlength and 16-inch diameter, madeof 5052-0 aluminum-alloy sheets ofthickness, were subjected to bendingmoments constant along the cylinderand in time in an oven which maintaineda constant temperature of 500 fduring the test .  all the cylindersfailed by buckling .  the time thatelapsed between load application andcollapse was measured .
  a theory of creep buckling is presented in which the instantaneouselastic and plastic deformations following the application of a load, aswell as the steady creep deformations, are considered in an approximatemanner .  equations are given from which the critical time, that is, thetime elapsing between load application and the collapse of the column,can be computed .
  the general dynamic equation ofcreep bending of a beam loaded laterallyand axially was derived for alinearly viscoelastic material whosemechanical properties can be characterizedby four parameters .  the materialcan exhibit instantaneous and retardedelasticity as well as pureflow .  the equation derived was used toobtain the creep bending deflectionof a beam in pure bending and of a columnwith initial sinusoidal deviationfrom straightness .  as expected, theratio of the creep deflectionsof the beam in pure bending and thedeflections of a corresponding purelyelastic structure is identical to theratio of the creep strain and thecorresponding elastic strain of a barunder simple tension or compression .  the results of the analysis of thecreep deflection of the columnshowed that the deflections increasecontinuously with time and becomeinfinitely large only when the loadingtime is correspondingly large .however, large deflections are obtainedin reasonably short periods oftime if the applied load is near to theeuler load of the column .  thedeflection-time curves obtained from anumerical example are of the sametype as those determined by experimentwith aluminum columns .
  the creep of a slightly crooked section column carrying aconstant load is studied theoretically .  the material of the columnis characterized by a strain-time relationship, under constantuniaxial stress, of the form, where isthe total strain, is the constant stress, is the time, and e,a,b,and k are material constants .  this form was selected because itapplies to at least two alloys--75s-t6 aluminum alloy at 600 f .and a low-alloy steel at 800 and 1,100 f .  however, the analysisis intended for any material having creep properties of thesame form and for which the material constants are known .  astrain-time relationship under variable uniaxial stress, necessaryfor the column analysis, is formulated from the constant-stressproperties with the aid of shanley's engineering hypotheses ofcreep .  the analysis leads to the conclusion that the lateral deflectionapproaches infinity--that is, the column collapses--in finite time .results are given showing the maximum length of time the columncan support a given load before it collapses and the growthof stresses, strains, and deflections prior to collapse .
  this paper is concerned with the solution of the creep buckling ofcolumns .  instantaneous elastic and plastic deformations, as well asthe transient and secondary creep, are considered .  formulae for thecritical time at which a column fails are presented for integral valuesof the exponents appearing in the creep law .
  a phenomenological relation betweenstress, strain rate, and temperatureis suggested to account for thebehavior of polycrystalline metalsabove the equicohesive temperature .the properties of the metalincluded in the relation are elasticity,linear thermal expansion, andviscosity .  the relation may be integratedunder various conditions toprovide information on creep rates, creeprupture, stress-strain curves,and rapid-heating curves .  it is shownthat for one material - 7075-t6aluminum-alloy sheet - the informationyielded by the relation for thesefour applications agrees reasonablywell with test data .
  the phenomenological theory previouslyproposed in naca technicalnote 4000 for the behavior of metals atelevated temperatures has beenmodified to yield transient creep curvesby assuming that the metal consistsof two phases, each with its ownelasticity and viscosity .  theextended theory satisfies the basicrequirements for a theory of transientcreep at elevated temperatures ..that the transient creep be closelyconnected with the subsequent steadycreep, and that the apparent exponentof the time in the transient regionbe permitted wide variationsbetween 0 and 1 .  from this theory it ispossible to construct nondimensionalcreep curves which extend continuouslyfrom the transient regioninto the steady-state region .  thecorresponding family of creep curvesfor any metal may be obtained fromthe nondimensional family by use ofappropriate constants .  the constantsrequired are those obtained fromsteady creep measurements, togetherwith two additional constants whichrepresent the difference between thephases .  the transient creep curvesresulting from this theory are comparedwith the experimental curvesfor pure aluminum, gamma iron, lead, andagreement is found .
  a variational theorem is presented for a body undergoingcreep .  solutions to problems of the creep behavior of plates,columns, beams, and shells can be obtained by means of thedirect methods of the calculus of variations in conjunction withthe stated theorem .  the application of the theorem is illustratedfor plates and columns by the solution of two sampleproblems .
  some general topics in elastic stability are discussed .  inparticular, attention is given to the relationship between adjacentequilibrium-positionand energy techniques, to the effects of nonlinearity,and to the sensitivity of certain stability problems to thecharacter of the loading .
  a general variational theory of elastic stability that wasoriginated by e. trefftz (1) is applied to the problem ofbuckling of rings of rectangular cross section subjected touniform external pressure .  the theory is believed to bemore rigorous than previous treatments of the problem,since it avoids conventional assumptions of curved-beamtheory, such as the assumptions that plane sections remainplane and that radial stresses vanish .  the classicalresult of levy (2) is confirmed for a ring of infinitesimalthickness .  new results are obtained which show theeffect of the finite thickness of a ring on the coefficients inthe buckling formula .
the necessity of determining the conservativeness of force systems ininstability problems is discussed in reference 1 .  it is shown that,whereas kinetic methods are generally applicable for the determinationof instability loads, the statical methods usually employed are validonly for conservative and nongyroscopic systems .  small changes inthe character of the loading could make an otherwise conservativesystem nonconservative and cause a large change in the magnitude of thebuckling load .  the buckling load of the cantilever column examplein reference 1 is, for tangential end loading, eight times that forconservative, constant directional loading .
since the failure of tubes under uniform external pressure dependsvery much upon the various kinds of imperfections in them,it seems logical to derive a design formula for such tubes inwhich the quantities depending on imperfections will appear explicitly .the most common imperfection in tubes is an initial ellipticity,the limiting value of which in each type of tube is usually well-knownfrom numerous inspection measurements .  the deviation of the shapeof the tube from a perfect circular form can be defined by theinitial radial deflections w' .
  a long, thin-walled cylindrical shell is loaded by a uniform externalpressure .  equations are developed for the time behaviorof the shape of the cross section under the following conditions ..formations expressible by a power creep law,. (b) the initial andsubsequent mode shape of the deviations from circularity of anycross section is two-lobed,. and (c) the shell construction is of thesandwich type, with concentric cylindrical membranes takingnormal stresses and an annular core supporting shear withoutdeformation .  explicit solutions are obtained for the particularcase of the cubic creep law .  it is shown that the nondimensionalamplitude of the cross-sectional mode shape (briefly, shape factor)will become infinite in a finite time .  curves of shape factorversus time and of collapse time versus initial value of the shapefactor are presented .  also given are an explicit expression forand a curve of the expected variation in collapse time owing touncontrollable deviations from a nominal initial value of theshape factor .  it is shown that the expected variation is smallif the nominal initial shape factor value is sufficiently large .
  the stability of a compressed elasticring has been studied by a method whichcan be extended to solve the problemof the stability of a flexible heavy structurespread by a system of hoops as in a crinolineskirt .  the original work by levy, whichwas developed by timoshenko and love,cannot be generalized to problems inwhich the compressing forces are affected bythe deformation of the ring .  it is shown that the load at which a ringwill buckle depends not only upon themagnitude of the load but also upon its firstderivative relative to the radial distance .a positive derivative causes the ring tobuckle at a higher load .  when this resultis applied to a cone of heavy and looselydraped fabric spread by a rigid hoop ofradius and a larger and flexible hoopof radius below it, both hoops being inhorizontal planes, then various modesof buckling other than oval are possibleaccording to the relative magnitudes ofand .  it is found that oval bucklingchanges to three-wave buckling whenthree-wave changes to fourwavewhen, and as andapproach nearer to equality the buckledform progressively changes to more waves .when applied to a structure spread bymany horizontal hoops of which the topone is rigid and oval, it is found that allother hoops, if each is designed to thecriterion, will have the sameabsolute deviation from circularity as therigid hoop .  if any one hoop is designedso that, then the oval shape ofthe rigid hoop is magnified on all flexiblehoops .
  according to marguerre (proc. 5th internat. congressappl. mech., cambridge, mass., 1938, wiley, new york,shells are governed by three simultaneous differential equationsin the three displacements .  the author has considerablysimplified this theory for the case of transverse vibrationsby ignoring the longitudinal inertia terms, thus reducingthe problem to that of solving two simultaneousdifferential equations in a stress function and one displacementcomponent .  this simplification is justified by an orderof-magnitudeanalysis, and illustrated by considering thevibrations of a paraboloidal shell with a rectangularboundary .
it is shown that a perfectly straight bar, subjectedto a state of uniform shear stress, willbuckle, in a manner similar to a column undercompression, if the shear stress exceedsa certain critical value .  the buckling equationsare obtained by the newtonian approachand also by the application of the principleof minimum potential energy .  inorder to provide additional insight into this bucklingmechanism, a simple model isintroduced and analyzed .
  the deformation and complete stressdistribution are determined foreach of the following edge-loaded thinshells ..  (1) a right circularcylinder, (2) a frustum of a rightcircular cone, and (3) a portion of asphere .  the locations of maximumcircumferential and meridional stressesare also found .  equations aredeveloped for discontinuity shear andmoment at the following junctions ..circular cylinder, (2) axial changeof thickness in a cone, (3) changeof thickness in a portion of a sphere,cylinder and a portion of a sphere,
  an experimental investigation wasmade (1) to evaluate previouslypublished theoretical procedures forthe prediction of stress distributionfor cases of radially symmetricabrupt change in wall thickness ofthin-walled cylinders subject tointernal pressure and (2) to investigatethe significance of stressesattributable to the presence of thicknesschanges typical of design practice .one theory was adequate in itselffor solution of the case of continuousmiddle surface,. use of thesecond theoretical procedure was requiredto determine the additionalstresses arising from discontinuous middlesurfaces at the change inthickness .  comparisons were made betweentheoretical and experimental stressdistributions for cases with continuousmiddle and continuous inner surfacesfor radially symmetric changes inwall thickness of a cylindersubject to internal pressure for diameterto larger wall thickness ratiosof 117 and 28 and for the case of acontinuous outer surface for a ratioof 28 .  in all tests the ratio of wallthicknesses at the change in wallthickness was 0.4 .  there was reasonably good correlationbetween theoretical and experimentalcurves of stress distribution .on the basis of this correlation,it was concluded that the applicabletheories were valid .  itwas shown that inclusion of the stressesarising from the condition ofdiscontinuous middle surfaces at a changein thickness has an importanteffect on stress distribution .  in the case of a cylinder with acontinuous outer surface, the maximummean effective stress was of sufficientmagnitude to indicate thatthis geometry should be avoided in designif possible .  the maximummean effective stress was not increased toa significant degree by thepresence of a change in wall thickness inthe other cases .
  experimental measurements of pressures and heat-transferrates over three blunt afterbodies of small fineness ratio in fullyseparated wakes are presented .  the afterbodies are generallysimilar in shape but have different stepdown heights from the endof the forebody .  tests were made by means of a new shroud technique over arange of reynolds numbers closely corresponding to typicalflight conditions at mach numbers on the order of 20, consideringmodels on the order of 5 ft. in diameter at about 120,000 ft. altitude.  stagnation temperatures on the order of 1,300 r. to  strictly speaking, the test flows correspond to prototype flowswhich would be created by a forebody consisting of a sharp orslightly blunted 54 half angle cone which turns cylindrical for ashort distance and then connects with the afterbody .  judiciouslyinterpreted, the results may be considered to have a somewhatwider applicability for approximation purposes .  the results arepresented and compared with each other in terms of nondimensionalvariables based on flow conditions at the end of the forebody.  the pressure distribution along an afterbody is seen to beroughly uniform in each run .  for a given point on an afterbody,the ratio of pressure to the stagnation pressure at the forebodyend (or exit) decreases with increasing stagnation pressure orreynolds number .  the present pressures and pressure-reynoldsnumber variations (fig. 8) are compared with values obtainedfrom chapman's mach 2 or 3 base-pressure data,. qualitative andsome quantitative agreement is noted .  in the reynolds numberrange comparable to those of the present tests, chapman's exitboundary layers were considered to be laminar .  an approximatecheck of the heat-transfer rate at the forebody end in the presenttests also indicates a laminar rate .  no information was obtainedconcerning the possible transition of the free-mixing separatedboundary layer covering the wake .  an adverse pressure gradienton the cylindrical end of the forebody figs. 7(a) and 7(c) wasobserved .  heat-transfer rates are seen to be roughly uniform over anafterbody in each run, although some increase in the streamwisedirection is noted .  the afterbody nusselt number (n) varieswith the reynolds number (r evaluated at the forebody end)roughly in the manner n r where generally (fig. 13) .  heat rates on the rear faces of the afterbodies are almosttwice the values on the sides .  the heat rates on the large-stepbody are higher than those on the body of zero stepdown height .  in an addendum, it is shown that the prandtl-meyer expansionangle of the flow leaving the afterbody increases with increasingtest reynolds number, and that the corresponding local machnumber square increases linearly with reynolds number .  theeffect is to keep the local wake reynolds numbers virtually constantwith increasing test reynolds number while the afterbodyheat rates increase sharply .  the expansion angle on the afterbodyof zero stepdown height is significantly smaller than on thestepped down bodies,. this may affect the decreased heat rates onthis body .
the love-meissner analysis for thin shells has previously been appliedto cones of uniform wall thickness, and solutions for the stressresultants were given in terms of kelvin's functions . since tabulationof these functions for large arguments is not practical, considerablecomputation was still required .  in the present paper, the authorsdefine special functions which eliminate the necessity of evaluatingkelvin/s functions and which may be used with simple algebraic andtrigonometric functions to compute the boundary forces and displacementsfor cones for various loading conditions .  these special functions alsomake clear the magnitude of errors which result from geckeler/s andother approximate solutions .
  the report presents informationon the stress problems in theanalysis of pressurized cabins ofhigh-altitude aircraft not met within other fields of stress analysisrelating to aircraft .  the materialmay be roughly divided into shellproblems and plate problems, theformer being concerned with thecurved walls of the cabin or pressurevessel and the latter being concernedwith small rectangular panels ofits walls, framed by stiffeners, butnot necessarily plane .
  a numerical analysis is given for the solution of thegeneral equations of thin shells of revolution subjected torotationally symmetric pressure and temperature distributions.  the basic differential equations are in a very generalform, which permits the geometry of the shells considered,to be specified by discrete data points .  the analysis determines elastic stresses, strains anddisplacements for multi-layer and multi-sectional shells ofrevolution .  surface loads, temperatures, thicknesses andmaterial properties may vary arbitrarily in the meridionaldirection .  temperatures and material properties can alsovary through the thickness .  the solution is obtained by direct computation using anumerical method that employs two by two coefficient matrices,.and hence avoids the problems of slow convergence .the solution has been programmed in a semi-algebraiclanguage which can be used on most high speed computers .comparisons of numerical solutions to known exact and approximatesolutions of the thin shell equations are made todemonstrate the accuracy of this method .
  general equations for the symmetrical finite deflection ofa rotationally symmetric thin shell are first obtained .  forsmall deflections these equations are reduced to a pair ofequations for the change of slope of the shell surface andthe product of the undeformed radius of the shell to theradial stress .  this choice of dependent variable is shown tobe advantageous .  two cases of shallow shells give particularlysimple solutions ..  parabolic shells of nth degree anduniform thickness, and parabolic shells of mth degree withthickness varying as mth power of the distance from theapex .  for the first case, the solutions can be expressed interms of cylinder functions,. for the second, in powers ofthe paper concludes with a discussion of the asymptoticsolutions for small thickness .
  discussion of previously presented experimental data for theloading of pressurized cylinders, in terms of membrane theory .
  a theoretical solution is givenfor the critical stress ofthin-walled cylinders loaded in torsion .the results are presentedin terms of a few simple formulas andcurves which are applicableto a wide range of cylinder dimensionsfrom very short cylinders oflarge radius to long cylinders of smallradius .  theoreticalresults are found to be in somewhat betteragreement with experimentalresults than previous theoreticalwork for the same rangeof cylinder dimensions .
be described here is attributed to the russianinvestigator v. g. galerkin, whose original papers areinaccessible to the present writer .  his knowledgeof the method is derived from a description given ina paper by e. p. grossman .  grossman statesthat the method was given by galerkin in his treatisep. 897), and that applications to oscillation problemswere first made by v. p. lyskov .  it is pointedout by grossman that galerkin's process in applicationsto mechanics leads to the same results aslagrange's principle of virtual work, but employs aspecial co-ordinate system .  the method of galerkin belongs to the same generalclass as those of rayleigh and ritz, for it seeksto obtain an approximate solution of a differentialequation with given boundary conditions by takinga function which satisfies these conditions exactly,and proceeds to specialise the function in such amanner as to secure approximate satisfaction of thedifferential equation .  the selected function isa linear combination of n independent functions, andthe coefficients are determined by a process ofintegration .  the galerkin process can be considered from twopoints of view, (a) simply as a means for theapproximate solution of differential equations, andtreatment of problems concerning the statics anddynamics of elastic and other deformable bodies .these two aspects are treated separately in parts 1and 2 of the paper respectively, and will nowbe briefly discussed .which satisfies the boundary conditions, inthe differential equation be .  since the result should bezero, is the error in the differential equation .then the galerkin process consists in choosing the ncoefficients in the function in such a manner thatn distinct weighted means of the error, taken throughouta certain range of representation, shall allbe zero .as a generalised force, and the multipliers usedto weight the errors are the virtual displacementscorresponding to increments of each of the generalisedco-ordinates in turn .  thus the vanishing of theweighted mean is here interpreted as the vanishingof the virtual work in the appropriate displacement .  the degree of accuracy attaindd can be increasedindefinitely by increasing the number of independentfunctions employed, but this entails a greatincrease of labour .  however, when the functionsare well chosen, an excellent approximation can beobtained by the use of a very small number, as issufficiently shown by the examples included in this paper .
  a small-deflection theory that takes into account deformationsdue to transverse shear is presented for the elastic-behavioranalysis of orthotropic plates of constant cylindrical curvaturewith considerations of buckling included .  the theory isapplicable primarily to sandwich construction .
  the sandwich plate consisting ofcorrugated sheet fastened betweentwo face sheets is considered .  applicationof existing theories to theanalysis of such a sandwich plate requiresthe knowledge of certainelastic constants .  formulas and charts arepresented for the evaluationof these constants .  the formulas for threeof these constants werechecked experimentally and found to givevalues in close agreement withthe experimental values .
  theoretical solutions are presentedfor the buckling in uniformaxial compression of two types of simplysupported curved sandwichplates ..  the corrugated-core type and theisotropic-core type .  thesolutions are obtained from a theory fororthotropic curved plates inwhich deflections due to shear are takeninto account .  results aregiven in the form of equations and curves .
  in the design of high-speed aircraft the importance of unpressurizedand pressurized monocoque cylinders necessitates a reliableanalysis procedure for the compressive buckling of cylindricalshells .  analysis by the classical small-deflection theory hasproved inadequate .  recent large-deflection theoretical treatmentsof the problem have shown reasonable correlation withexperiments but require a prior knowledge of the initial imperfectionsof the cylinder .  developed in this paper is a semiempiricalprocedure which permits a compressive buckling analysis ofcylindrical shells with a knowledge of the cylinder geometry only .this analysis is achieved by correlating experimental data statisticallywith theoretical parameters .  in order to provide data not previously available, an extensiveseries of axial compression tests of pressurized cylinders has beenperformed .  these data, together with all other known test data,are analyzed semiempirically .  in the analysis best-fit curvesare presented using theoretical parameters and shapes of curveswhere applicable .  unpressurized and pressurized cylindercompressive buckling curves are then developed as 90 per centprobability curves from the test data .  in general, these statisticallydefined design curves are significantly lower than previouslyavailable design curves .
the importance of the field of shell analysis is evidenced by thefact that in august, 1959, the international union of theoreticaland applied mechanics conducted a symposium on the theory of thinelastic shells in delft, holland .  this special meeting was attened byapproximately 65 scientists in this field from 14 countries .  thissymposium indicated that considerable interest currently exists insuch relatively new topics as the buckling of bimetallic shells,pressurized shells, creep buckling, and dynamic buckling, as well asin the more traditional problems involving isotropic shells of variousgeometries .
  a nonlinear boundary value problem for the determination ofthe rotationally symmetric deformations of a clamped sphericalcap under external pressure is solved by finite differences .  thenumerical solutions are obtained by employing a previously developediteration procedure .  a special case of the differenceequations is solved explicitly and yields a justification of theiteration method as well as insight into the properties of the moreaccurate numerical solutions .  buckled and unbuckled equilibrium states are obtained andthe shape of the pressure-deflection curve which is usually assumedfor these states is verified for a large class of caps .  close estimatesare given for the upper and lower buckling loads and anintermediate buckling load--i.e., the /dead-weight/ load .  thestresses and deflections in the buckled and unbuckled states areexamined and compared with an asymptotic solution valid in theinterior of very thin shells .  boundary layers are found to developin the buckled states both as the loading increases and asthe thickness of the shell decreases .
  the authors study non-linear von karman equationsfor bending of a thin circular plate under uniform normalpressure .  discussion is mainly concerned with platesclamped at the edges and with zero radial displacement,but analysis is valid for other edge conditions .  solution isby an iterative procedure whose convergence propertiesare studied by means of integral equations .  method isthen applied to finite difference formulation of the differentialequations in order to obtain numerical solutions .numerical results are compared with previous work byother authors and the advantages of the present methodare indicated .
  iterative solutions of finite differenceapproximations of the non-linear von karmanplate equations are presented .  resultsare obtained for circular plates under avariety of boundary conditions subjected toeither uniform lateral pressure or uniformedge thrust .  the solution, carried out numerically onthe aec univac at new york university,yields a complete description of stressesand deflections for an apparently unlimitedrange of load parameters .  in addition, boundarylayer phenomena are discussed .  forcomputing purposes, this iterative method provesto be superior to the previously usedpower series method and may be applicable toother non-linear problems .
  this paper is concerned with the nonlinear axisymmetricanalysis of circular plates with in-planeedge restraint .  both temperature and mechanicalloads are accommodated as an extension of investigationsperformed for the isothermal mechanicalloading problem .  an exact mathematical formulationwithin the framework of the v. karman largestrain-displacement relations is developed .  the equilibriumequations and boundary conditions are thenderived by utilizing the calculus of variations for arbitraryaxisymmetrical temperatures and normal distributedloading .  the satisfaction of equilibrium andcompatibility equations requires the solution of twosimultaneous nonlinear ordinary differential equationssubject to the prescribed boundary conditions .  analyticalsolutions of such equations are apparently notpossible and therefore numerical procedures must beemployed .  a finite difference procedure utilizing /relaxediterations,/ developed by h. keller and e. reiss, andemployed by them for the solution of isothermal problemswith apparently unlimited load parameter ranges,is used here for combined thermo-mechanical problems .numerical results are presented for the special case ofa simply supported circular plate with radially immovableboundaries, subject to a uniform pressure and anarbitrary temperature variation through the thicknesstained for a large range of temperature and load parameters.  however, because of space limitations, onlya limited amount of data are presented in this paper .
  the authors point out in this paper that initially conedannular-disk springs of uniform cross section may beproportioned to give a wide variety of load-deflectioncurves not readily obtainable with the more conventionalforms of springs, and that, although the versatility of thistype spring has long been indicated, the formulas availablehave not been presented in a manner to disclosereadily the effect of spring proportions on characteristics .therefore the authors have derived the formulas presentedin this paper with the intention that the formulas will aidthe designer in arriving at suitable characteristics bychoice of spring geometry .  these new formulas havebeen in use for several years at the general motors corporationresearch laboratories section, and their reliabilityhas been checked by tests of springs used in avariety of special test equipment .
  this paper presents approximate formulasto describe the behavior of the conicaldisk spring .  it is assumed that the shallowconical shell remains conical when subjectedto the axially symmetric edge loads .the principle of stationary potentialenergy is used to derive the relations betweenload and deflection .  formulas relatingthe applied loads, stresses, and deflections aregiven for several types of edge constraint.  the analysis is essentially a refinementand extension of the previous workof almen and laszlo .
  the large symmetric deformations of shallow conical shells areof interest in the design of nonlinear conical disk springs .  in mostapplications a uniformly distributed axial load acts at the innerand outer edges,. these edges are otherwise free .  several approximationshave been proposed to describe the behavior ofthese springs .  a first approximation (1) is based on the assumptionthat meridional strains are negligible .  this requires that theshell remain conical after deformation and also that the extensionalstrain of meridional lines on the middle surface vanish .another approximation (2) retains only the assumption that theshell remains conical .  the first assumption satisfies neither ofthe two boundary conditions at the free edges,. the latterviolates the condition of vanishing moment at the free edges .  recentlythe authors presented a series solution (3) for a specialcase, namely, the case of an annular plate under similar loading .numerical solutions for the shallow conical shell under theseconditions of load have also been obtained (4) .  an examinationof these results indicates that the meridional bending stresses areof much smaller magnitude than the circumferential bendingstresses .  hence the present analysis is based on the neglect of themeridional bending moment .
  authors discuss the thin elastic circular disk of constant thicknesssubjected to a constant compressive thrust applied at itsedge .  the analysis presented is based upon the nonlinear vonkarman equations of plate theory and is applied to disks with completelyclamped and completely, simply supported edges .
the equations for the turbulent mixing of a two-dimensional supersonicjet issuing into an ambient supersonic stream are formulated . bothstreams consist of a mixture of chemically active and possibly reactinggases, therefore any heat release by chemical reaction is included,. the net mass rate of production of species is obtained on the assumptionthat the reaction rate constant is given by an expression reducible tothe classical arrhenius law . the equations first given in terms of thex, and y coordinates, are expressed in dimensionless form and in termsof the x and coordinates, where is the stream function . the resultingexpressions are all of the /heat conduction/ type,. they are put in afinite difference form by using the crank-nicolson method of substitutingfinite difference approximations for both the /time/ and /space/derivatives . the mixture is assumed to consist of six species, namelyh2o, h2, o2, co2, co, and n2, and the oxidation of h2 and co is assumedto take place according to a single-step chemical reaction . the solutionof the problem is based on the simultaneous solution of 8n linearalgebraic equations in 8n unknowns, n being the number of internal gridpoints at every step in the x-direction, and 8 the total number of unknownsat each grid point, namely velocity, temperature, and concentrationfor each of the six species . a method of obtaining initial andboundary conditions from available inviscid jet flow solutions is discussed. the equations are programed for calculation on an ibm-704 computer. finally, one typical case is considered, and plots of velocity,temperature, and concentration profiles are given for the initial stages of development of the mixing layer .
  the second-order wing-body interference theoryof landahl and beane is used in the theoreticalcalculation of the pressure distributionsover the wing of a wing-body combination .results are compared with experimental valuesobtained from wind-tunnel tests, at a machnumber of 7.35, on a cone-cylinder non-lifting bodywith a triangular wing of wedge sectionset at incidences of 0, 3, 6 and 10 .  it is shownthat interference effects can be very largeand can be calculated theoretically with good accuracy .
  the purpose of this paper isto show how to obtain steadystate solutions to the navier-stokesequations on a high-speed digitalcomputer .  first the relative meritsof various finite differenceformulae are discussed .  thereafterthe main part of the paper isconcerned with the methods used tosolve the finite differenceequations and an investigation is madeof all the simpler iterativemethods .
  during static-thrust tests of a largescalegeneral research model having atilting wing and double-slotted flaps,static-pressure measurements were made ona wing segment behind one propeller tosurvey the effects of the slipstream .  forthe conditions of highest slipstream energy,the hovering end point of aerodynamicparameters for aircraft having vertical andshort take-off and landing capabilitythe tilt-wing configuration (zeroflap deflection) was a 6 spanwise variationin effective angle of attack in aspan of slightly less than 1 propeller diameter .effective changes in camberon the tilt-wing configuration as a result ofslipstream rotation, the radialvelocity gradient, and the resultant spanwiseflow were negative and had a maximummagnitude of less than 2-percent chord .  forthe deflected-slipstream configuration(double-slotted flaps deflected), effectsimportant to the hovering performancewere found, including a 40-percent spanwisevariation in effective thrustrecovery and a 20 spanwise variation in effectivethrust turning .
  a five-stage rocket-propelled researchvehiclesystem was flown to a maximummach number of 13.1 at an altitude ofapproximately 78,000 feet to determineablation characteristics of teflon in freeflight .  continuous in-flight measurementswere made using sensors developed bythe national aeronautics and spaceadministration .  the sensors were locatedon the blunted face of a nose cone constructedfrom teflon, with one at the stagnationpoint and two others at a surfacedistance of 0.62 radius on opposite sides of thestagnation point .  the ablatedlengthmeasurements were in close agreement withanalytical predictions .  theanalytical predictions, upon inclusion of thepertinent material property values,should be applicable to other materials as wellas teflon .
  the aerodynamic damping of aflexibly mounted aeroelastic modelwith a blunted conical nose and acylindrical afterbody was measured atmach numbers from 0.70 to 1.20 atseveral levels of dynamic pressureand two weight conditions and atmach numbers from 1.76 to 2.87 at oneweight condition .  the first twofree-free flexible modes of vibrationwere investigated .  also investigatedat mach numbers from 0.9 to 1.2was the aerodynamic damping in thefirst free-free modes of a modelwhich had a /hammerhead/ nose (thebase diameter of the blunted conewas greater than the diameter of theafterbody which necessitated areflex angle downstream from the conebase) .  two basically different methods,the /electrical power-input/ andthe /decaying oscillations/ methods wereused to determine the dampingand frequencies .  the experimentallydetermined values are compared withsome applicable theories .  the resultsof the investigation indicatethat the aerodynamic damping in theelastic modes of vibration was smallfor all configurations tested .  themaximum aerodynamic damping measuredin the first mode was on the order ofdamping .  the aerodynamic damping wasfound to be even less for vibrationmodes higher than the first .  reducedfrequencyeffects were found to benegligible for the range investigated .agreement of calculated aerodynamicdamping derivatives with theexperimental results was not good .generally, the experimentally determinedderivatives were larger thanthose predicted by the various theoriesused .  the bond-packard theoryappeared to give the best agreement forthe first free-free vibrationmode but gave the worst agreement for thesecond mode .  measurementsmade on the configuration that had ahammerhead nose indicated smallnegative aerodynamic damping in the machnumber range from 0.95 to 1.00 .aerodynamic stiffness effects were foundto be small and within theexperimental scatter .  (wind-on frequencydetermination was accurateonly to approximately 1 percent .)
  a linear eighth-order equilibrium differential equation forplastic buckling of geometrically orthotropic thin cylindricalshells is derived .  this equation is used to obtain explicit solutionsfor long flat plates and wide columns under axial compressionand moderate-length cylinders under external pressure, torsion,and axial compression .
  to determine the elastic bucklingpressure of simply supportedcylindrical shells subjected to lateraland axial hydrostatic forces,various versions of linear bendingtheories have been employed in thepast .  for certain shell dimensions,however, the expressions commonlyused may yield substantially differingresults .  in what follows,recent work on this problem bya. e. armenakas and the writer isbriefly reviewed .  this work consistedprimarily in employing a generalbending theory of circular cylindricalshells under the influence ofinitial stress, developed earlier bythe same authors, to re-examinethe problem mentioned, and compare theresults with those of previousinvestigations .  the outcome was theestablishment of a simple butaccurate expression for the bucklingpressure applicable to a widerange of shell dimensions .
  experimental results for 36 diameter honeycomb cylinders fabricatedwith thin (0.010) aluminum faces and cores prove that it isquite feasible to stabilize thin faces so they can be loaded beyondthe yield point .  the effect of initial imperfections and the variousmodes of failure are discussed .
  donnell type stability equations for thin circular orthotropicconical shells are presented and solved for external pressure, axialcompression and combined loading .  the solution is likewise appliedto stiffened conical shells .  correlation with equivalent cylindricalshells yields a simple approximate stability analysis for orthotropicor ring-stiffened conical shells under hydrostatic pressure .  thegeneral instability of stiffened conical shells under hydrostaticpressure is also analysed by a more accurate approach .  preliminaryexperimental results for buckling of ring-stiffened conical shellsunder hydrostatic pressure are presented and discussed .
  the stability of the toroidal portion of a torispherical shellunder internal pressure is considered from the point of view of thelinear buckling theory .  a detailed stress analysis of the prebuckledshell is made employing asymptotic integration .  the change in potentialenergy of the shell is then minimized using a rayleigh-ritzprocedure for actual computation of the critical pressure .  numericalresults reveal that elastic buckling may occur for very thin shellswhose material has a relatively high value of the ratio of yield stressto elastic modulus .
  the analytic investigation of laminar combustionprocesses which are essentially two- or three-dimensionalpresent some mathematical difficulties .  there are, however,several examples of two-dimensional flame propagationwhich involve transverse velocities that are small incomparison with that in the principal direction of flow .such examples occur in the problem of flame quenchingby a cool surface, flame stabilization on a heated flat plate,combustion in laminar mixing zones, etc .  in these casesthe problem may be simplified by employing what isknown in fluid mechanics as the boundary-layer approximation,since it was applied first by prandtl in his treatmentof the viscous flow over a flat plate .  physically itconsists in recognizing that if the transverse velocity issmall, the variations of flow properties along the directionof main flow are small in comparison with those in adirection normal to the main flow .  the analytic descriptionof the problem simplifies accordingly .  the presentanalysis considers the ignition and combustion in thelaminar mixing zone between two parallel moving gasstreams .  one stream consists of a cool combustible mixture,the second is hot combustion products .  the twostreams come into contact at a given point and a laminarmixing process follows in which the velocity distribution ismodified by viscosity, and the temperature and compositiondistributions by conduction, diffusion, and chemicalreaction .  the decomposition of the combustible streamis assumed to follow first-order reaction kinetics withtemperature dependence according to the arrhenius law .for a given initial velocity, composition, and temperaturedistribution, the questions to be answered are ..  (1) doesthe combustible material ignite,. and (2) how far downstreamof the initial contact point does the flame appearand what is the detailed process of development .  sincethe hot stream is of infinite extent, it is found that ignitionalways takes place at some point of the stream .  however,when the temperature of the hot stream drops below acertain value, the distance required for ignition increasesso enormously that it essentially does not occur in aphysical apparatus of finite dimension .  the completedevelopment of the laminar flame front is computed usingan approximation similar to the integral technique introducedby von karman into boundary layer theory .
  three approximate methods for the solution of the nonlinearequation of heat flow in a medium where heat isbeing generated by a chemical reaction are compared .  theequations are wheresubscripts indicate partial differentiations and q, k, a are
approximate second-order solutions for the supersonic flow around wingbodycombinations are calculated, using two different theoretical modelssmall and the wing sweep small in comparison with that of the mach coneare considered . the analysis is restricted to such high mach numbersthat m-2 1, and an approximate formula common to the two models is thenfound for the second-order interference term . this formula can also beused to correct experimental pressure distributions for the effect ofnonuniformities in the wind-tunnel flow .in order to test the theory, wind-tunnel experiments on non-liftingcone-cylinder bodies in combination with wings of simple shapes wereperformed . pressure distributions were measured at m 3 and m 4, botharound the bodies and on the wings separately, as well as in combination,and it was found that the second-order interference was predictedreasonably well by the simplified theory .
pressure distributions on the wing of two wing-body combinations aremeasured experimentally at mach numbers 3 and 4 with the wing at various incidences in the range 0degree to 10degree . the results are comparedwith theoretical results which include interference effects calculatedaccording to the second-order supersonic wing-body interference theorydue to landahl and beane /1/ . this theory, having been tested previouslyfor non-lifting wing-body combinations, is thus tested also forwings at incidence . the agreement between theory and experiment isfound to vary with mach number and wing sweepback . for the higher machnumber and moderate sweepback the theory gives a good prediction ofpressure distribution, but for the most adverse condition of low machnumber and large sweepback the theory is found to overestimate theinterference effects . this is expected as the theory assumes thesweepback of the wings is small compared with that of the mach line . an empirical guide to the limit of application of the interference theoryis given . within this limit the agreement between theory and experiment is found to deteriorate only a little with increase of incidence, overthe range tested .
a simplified approximate theory is presented by means of which thelaminar boundary layer over an insulated two-dimensional surface may becalculated, a linear velocity profile being assumed, and an estimatemade of its effect in changing the pressure distribution over the profileupon which the boundary layer is formed . skin friction is alsodetermined . comparisons of results from this theory are made with experimentalresults at a mach number of 6.86 and a reynolds number of
a new method is derived for solving the attached oblique shock-wavesystem for surfaces at various angles of attack, sweep, and dihedral inany real gas in equilibrium . results are tabulated for the followingranges .. angle of attack, 0degree to 65degree,. angle of sweep, 0degree to 75degree,. angle of dihedral, 0degree to 30degree,. mach number, 3to 30,. and /effective specific-heat ratio/ parameter, 1.10 to 1.67 .both the method and tabulated solutions are easily adaptable to flightin any gas or in the atmosphere of any planet . an illustrative exampleis presented based on the ardc 1956 model atmosphere .
this paper describes the numerical solution of the complete navierstokesequations for the steady flow of an incompressible viscous fluidof unlimited extent past a circular cylinder at reynolds number 40 . anew device developed for the numerical solution is described . theresults of the investigation are ..good agreement with experimental results .higher reynolds numbers even though they may not exist in nature . asolution has been obtained at reynolds number 44 but it has not beencarried to the same accuracy as the solution at reynolds number 40 .portion of the cylinder continues to increase with reynolds number insuch steady-state solutions up to a reynolds number 44 and no indication has been found that this process will not continue as the reynoldsnumber is increased beyond 44 .
  the paper gives approximate formulaefor derivatives (including combinationslike and ), and integrals, of a functionof two independent variables, in termsof its values at nodes of a square lattice,primarily for use in the numerical solutionof partial differential equations .  considerationis given to the form, as well as tothe magnitude, of the leading terms in theerror, and what is believed to be formost purposes optimum combinations arethus selected for the simpler compactsets of nodes .
relaxation methods are outlined, and the present problem formulated inmodified spherical polar co-ordinates . the results of calculations made  for r 5, 10, 20, 40 are presented in the form of stream function andvorticity distributions,. and further results of pressure distributions, velocity distributions, and drag coefficients, calculated from them .these results are shown to compare favourably with experimental work,showing a steady trend from symmetrical stokes's flow, towards boundarylayer flow . the phenomenon of separation of the forward flow and developmentof a circulating wake, is explained and illustrated, the firstformation of a wake being at r 17 .
the steady two-dimensional flow around a circular cylinder submerged ina viscous fluid for the case r 40 is investigated, integrating numericallythe exact navier-stokes equations . the main results are asfollows . /i/ the steady flow solution exists even for the reynoldsnumber as high as 40 . moreover, it seems that the solution goes oversmoothly to the solution of the kirchhoff discontinuous flow theorywhich seems to be the limiting flow for the case r . /ii/ the flowpattern and the coefficients of pressure and drag are in good agreementwith the experimental data .
in this report numerical methods used to solve the navier-stokes equationsfor steady viscous two-dimensional flow are extended to includethe case of axial symmetry . the equations and their finite differenceapproximations are derived working in cylindrical polar co-ordinateswith the stokes' stream function and the vorticity as variables . a newmethod of dealing with the boundary conditions is given .the effects of viscosity and orlfice size on a blunt-nosed pitot tubehave been theoretically investigated up to a reynolds number of ten,where the reynolds number has been based on the radius of the tube .results are expressed in terms of a pressure coefficient where p is thepressure measured in the tube, p the density of the fluid, and p  and uthe static pressure and velocity in an undisturbed flow at the positionof the tube .the values of c for a blunt-nosed tube are found to be less than thosefor tubes with hemispheroidal heads, but always greater than unity inthe range considered . the effect of the orifice size is to decrease cas the orifice size increases, this decrease is very small but increases with the reynolds number . at a reynolds number of ten the decrease isat most five per cent of the value of c when there is no orifice .it is suggested that the decrease of c below unity found in some experimentalinvestigations at a higher reynolds number could be due to theeffects of orifice size .
flow of an inviscid fluid . -dash there are in existence several methods of obtaining numerical solutions to the two-dimensional flow of a perfectfluid for given boundary conditions . part 2 of the present papergives a method of obtaining a numerical solution for viscous steady flowsolution of the simpler problem, illustrating it with examples bearingon the experimental work described in part iv .
this paper deals chiefly with calculations and experiments on the flowpast circular cylinders, but the arithmetical methods of solution of the equations of steady viscous flow proposed and used in section i, areapplicable to other equations and may be of interest .
a criterion is given for the convergence of numerical solutions of thenavier-stokes equations in two dimensions under steady conditions . thecriterion applies to all cases of steady viscous flow in two dimensionsand shows that if the local 'mesh reynolds number', based on the size of the mesh used in the solution, exceeds a certain fixed value, the numericalsolution will not converge .
  an old numerical methodof solving fourth order differential equationsis put in relaxation form .  the higherorder correction terms are included and thetechnique is illustrated by an example .the method has the advantage of being morerapidly convergent than the usual relaxationprocedure for fourth order equations .some comments are made on the numericalsolution of the viscous flow equation .
the development of high-speed digital computers has made feasible thenumerical solution by iterative methods of some partial differentialequations . the convergence rates of several such iterative methods areestimated here . it is found that with the familiar elementary iterative methods some quite simple problems require prohibitive computationallabor .the iterative methods here considered are related to the various formsof the southwell /relaxation method/ in that they involve successivelyapplied local corrections to improve an approximate solution . however,these iterative methods are routinized in conformity with the requirementsof automatic computers while the relaxation method is flexible and depends in an essential way on the skill of its practitioners .
this paper considers linear systems /1/ where a includes matrices of asort frequently occurring in the solution of elliptic partial differentialequations by difference methods /in particular, a o/ . rewriting superscript is number of iteration cycle/ are used to compute uwhen u are used . also, one may /over-relax/ ..ser. a. 210, 307-357 /1910/ who suggested changing from time to timeto speed up convergence . in the present paper over-relaxation /withfixed w/ is combined with immediate introduction of newly-computed u's,a la gauss-seidel . various theorems on convergence are proved$. inparticular, it is shown that there exists an ordering of the equationsand an optimum value wb such that in general /3/ converges much morerapidly than the gauss-seidel method /w 1/ . means are suggested forestimating wb,. the sensitivity of the rate of convergence to the choice of w is studied . the paper concludes with a theoretical comparison ofgauss-seidel and the method proposed, /successive over-relaxation/, forsolving dirichlet's difference problem over a square using a high-speedcomputing machine .
  this paper discusses the two major configurations that are usuallyconsidered for achieving vtol while keeping the fuselage essentiallyhorizontal - that is, the tilt-wing and the deflected-slipstreamconfigurations .  because of the high turning losses incurred by deflected-slipstreamconfigurations in hovering and because of the wing-stalling problem ofthe pure tilt-wing configurations during the transition, it appears thata combination of the two principles should be used .  this tilt-wing andflap configuration should make use of a programed extensible-chordslotted flap together with a leading-edge high-lift device in order toavoid the performance and handling qualities problems associated withwing stalling during the transition while keeping the wing area as lowas possible for efficiency in cruising flight .
  this report presents in graphicalform the results presented in reference1 from pressure distribution and forcemeasurements on a half-wing modelof a twin-engined tilt-wing vtol configuration .the profound influence of theslipstream on these results is discussed in somedetail .
  the model was tested at two different elevations with the wingpivot at 1.008 and 2.425 propeller diameters above the ground .  theslipstream of the propellers was deflected by tilting the wing and propellers,by deflections of large-chord trailing-edge flaps, and by combinationsof flap deflection and wing tilt .  tests were conducted overa range of propeller disk loadings from 7.41 to 29.70 pounds per squarefoot .  force data for the complete model and pressure distributions forthe wing and flaps behind one propeller were recorded and are presentedin tabular form without analysis .
  an experimental investigation was made in then. a. c. a. full-scale wind tunnel to determine the effectof wing span on nacelle-propeller characteristics and,reciprocally, the lateral extent of nacelle and propellerinfluence on a monoplane wing .  the results provide acheck on the validity of the previous research on nacellesand propellers with 15-foot-span wings tested in the  the scale propeller and the n. a. c. a. cowlingused in the former researches were tested in three typicaltractor locations with respect to a thick wing of 5-footchord and 30-foot span .  the span was progressivelyreduced to 25,20, and 15 feet and the same characteristicswere measured in each case .  the efficiency factors--propulsive efficiency, nacelledrag efficiency, and net efficiency--were obtained for eachwing length by means of force tests and the values arecompared to determine the effect of span .  pressuredistributionmeasurements show the lateral extent of thenacelle interference and the propeller-slipstream effecton the span loading for the various conditions .  completepolar curves and curves showing the variation of nacelledrag with lift coefficient are also included .  force and pressure-distribution tests concur in indicatingthat, for engineering purposes, the influence of anacelle and of a propeller, in a usual combination, maybe considered to extend laterally on a wing the same maximumdistance, or about five nacelle diameters or two propellerdiameters outboard of their common axes .  allimportant effects of scale nacelle-propeller combinationsmay be measured within practical limits of accuracyby tests of a 15-foot-span wing .
  recent investigations of some jet and buried-fan configurationshave indicated that in the transition speed range, configurations withconsiderable area surrounding the jet or buried fan can encounter largelosses in lift and nose-up pitching moments due to the pressures inducedon the lower surfaces by the interaction of the jet and free-streamflow .  the obvious way of minimizing these effects is to reduce thesurface area surrounding the jets or buried fans, that is, to considerthese effects in the preliminary stages of the airplane design .
  an investigation of the effectsof ground proximity and propellerposition on the effectiveness of awing equipped with large-chord slottedflaps in redirecting the slipstreamsfrom large-diameter propellersdownward for vertical take-off has beenconducted in a static-thrustfacility at the langley aeronauticallaboratory .  the results indicate that, withthe propeller thrust axis on thewing chord plane, both the angle throughwhich the slipstream is deflectedand the ratio of resultant forceto thrust are reduced as the groundis approached .  at positions nearestthe ground some of the loss inresultant force is regained .  loweringthe thrust axis below the wingchord plane reduces the adverse effectsof the ground and also reducesthe large diving moments associated withthe slotted-flap arrangement .the static-thrust efficiency of thepropellers is slightly reduced bythe ground effect .
  an investigation of the effectivenessof a wing equipped with largechordslotted flaps in rotating thethrust vector of propellers throughthe angles required for verticaltake-off and for flight at very low speedshas been conducted in the facilitiesof the langley 300 mph 7- by 10-foottunnel .  under conditions of static thrustand with zero incidence between thethrust axis and the wing chord plane,the slotted flaps were effective inrotating the thrust vector upward aboutthan 10 percent of the thrust .  when anauxiliary vane was added above thewing, the thrust vector was rotated upwardconfiguration, vertical take-offcould be achieved with an initial attitudeof 16 and at airplane weightsup to 90 percent of the total propellerthrust .  the addition of 10 incidencebetween the thrust axis and the wingincreased the upward rotationof the thrust vector about 10 .  for thesame turning angle, the divingmoments associated with the slotted-flapconfigurations were approximatelytwice as large as the diving moments ofthe configurations with plainflaps and two auxiliary vanes .
  the effective heats of ablation of a number of materials werederived from tests in supersonic air jets at stagnation temperaturesranging from 2,000 f to 11,000 f .  the materials included the plasticsteflon, nylon, lucite, and polystyrene,. the inorganic salts ammoniumchloride and sodium carbonate, several phenolic resins of varied resincontent and type of reinforcement,. and a melamine-fiber glasslaminate .
  this paper presents the resultsof an experimental investigation onthe ablation of a number of promisingmaterials for heating conditionscomparable to those which may beencountered by unmanned reentry satellitevehicles, as well as for higherheating conditions comparable tothose associated with reentry ballisticmissiles .  materials testedincluded the plastics teflon, nylon,and lucite,. the inorganic saltsammonium chloride and sodium carbonate,.graphite,. a phenolic resin andfiber glass composition,. and thecommercial material haveg rocketon .results of these tests indicatedheat-absorption capabilities which areseveral times greater than those ofcurrent metallic heat-sink materials .the results with teflon showed thatfor hemispherical noses there was noapparent effect of size or stagnationpointpressure on ablation ratefor the range of variables covered inthe tests .  for flat-faced configurations,however, there was a definiteincrease in the ablation rate withincreased stagnation-point pressure .the results for the severalmaterials tested at heating ratesassociated with reentry ballisticmissiles showed considerable increasein the effective heats of ablationover the results obtained at lowerheating rates .  this trend ofincreased effectiveness with increasedheating potential is in agreementwith the predictions of ablationtheories .  comparisons of theresults for several materials testedat the higher heating rates showedgraphite to have the lowest ablationrate of all materials tested .
  the ablation performance characteristicsof a number of materialswere derived from tests conducted ina mach number 2.0 ethylene-heatedhigh-temperature air jet having amaximum stagnation enthalpy potentialof approximately 1,200 btu lb .  thetests were conducted with 6-inchdiameterblunt nose shapes .  thesurface of most of the materials aftertesting was generally smooth and theunablated portions of the specimenswere in appearance the same as beforetesting .  in all cases, the backor inside surface of the specimensexhibited no evidence of heating .  an evaluation of the enthalpypotential effect was obtained bycomparison of the present data withprevious tests conducted, on thein a subsonic arc-heated airjet .  the stagnation enthalpy potentialof this facility was approximately7,000 btu lb .  for teflon, theeffective heat of ablation increasedfrom approximately 1,250 btu lb toenthalpy potential was increased from
a simplified analysis is made of the shielding mechanism which reducesthe stagnation-point heat transfer when ablation takes place at thesurface . the most significant result of the analysis is that theeffective heat capacity of the ablation material increases linearly with stream enthalpy . the automatic shielding mechanism is discussed andthe significant thermal properties of a good ablation material are givenparameters .
an analytical procedure is described which enables the derivation ofeffective heat of ablation relationships for any type of boundary layerfrom transpiration cooling results . the procedure enables the inclusion of such effects as the ratio of wall temperature to local stream temperature,surface radiation, and surface combustion .the predicted effective heats of ablation for a three-dimensionallaminar stagnation boundary layer for teflon material were in agreementwith those derived from tests conducted at boundary-layer enthalpypotentials of 800 and approximately 7,000 btu/lb .the predicted equilibrium surface temperatures on nonablating surfacesbehind an ablating material were in agreement with the values derivedfrom tests conducted with inconel cylinders having teflon hemisphericalnose pieces .
a variable-capacitance ablation-rate sensor which allows continuousmeasurements of ablation rates for teflon and similar polymers has beendeveloped and tested in an ethylene-heated high-temperature jet atstagnation temperatures ranging from 2,400degree to 3,800degree f .the data /length changes/ were measured by using the same telemeterequipment as that used in rocket-propelled flight vehicles . testresults indicate measurement error to be a maximum of 4 percent betweenthe telemetered length changes and the length changes that were obtained from photographic records of the test .
a five-stage solid-fuel sounding-rocket system which can boost a payload of 25 pounds to an altitude of 525 nautical miles and that of 100pounds to 300 nautical miles is described . data obtained from a typical flight test of the system are discussed .
averaged and internally consistent values of atmospheric pressure,density, and temperature from the ground to an altitude of 219 km havebeen determined and compiled by the united states groups active inupper-atmospheric research by rockets . additional relevant data bysimilar groups engaged in research on meteors and on the anomalous propagationof sound are also included, particularly in a brief discussionof variations with time and with place of these three atmosphericparameters .
results are presented from recent investigations of the aerodynamicheating rates of blunt nose shapes at mach numbers up to 14 . dataobtained in flight and wind-tunnel tests have shown that the flat-facedcylinder has about 50 percent the stagnation-point heating rates of thehemisphere over nearly the entire mach number range . tests made at amach number of 2 on a series of bodies made up of hemispherical segments of varying radius of curvature showed that slight amounts of curvaturecan decrease the local rates at the edge of the flat-faced cylinderswith only a slight increase in the stagnation rate . the total heattransfer to such slightly curved bodies is also somewhat smaller thanthe total heat transfer to flat-faced cylinders .comparison of several tests with theoretical heating-rate distributionsshowed that both laminar and turbulent local rates can be predicted byavailable theories /given the pressure distribution about the body/reasonably well, although the scatter of the available data still leaves open the choice between the theories at the edge of the bodies, wherethey usually differ .tests on a flat-faced cylinder at a mach number of 2.49 and at anglesof attack up to 15degree showed the movement of the apparent stagnationpoint from the center of the body to the 50 percent windward station atcreased about 30 percent while that near the leeward edge decreasedabout 20 percent at 15degree angle of attack .preliminary results on a concave nose have indicated the possibilitythat this type of design may be developed to give heating rates significantlylower than even the flat-faced cylinder rates . the test results have also shown, however, the existence of an unsteady flow phenomenonwhich can increase the heating rates to extremely high values .
  the method described is an inverse one,. the shock shape is chosenand the solution proceeds downstream to a body .  bodies blunter thancircular cylinders are readily accessible, and any adiabatic index canbe chosen .  the lower limit to the free-stream mach number available inany case is determined by the extent of the subsonic field, which inturn depends upon the body shape .  some discussion of the stability ofthe numerical processes is given .  a set of solutions for flows aboutcircular cylinders at several mach numbers and several values of theadiabatic index is included .
  a turbulent boundary layer separatedby a forward-facing step wasobserved on the cylindrical portionof a hemisphere-cone-cylinder testvehicle .  tip blunting, producing ashear flow, was found to inducehigher pressures on the cylindricalportion than were predicted from ballistictunnel data of unblunted projectiles .an approximate method forpredicting this blunt-body pressuredistribution was hypothesized .  thesefindings, along with the hypothesis,were substantiated by a wind tunneltest of a similar body .  the peak pressureratios of the separation weresmaller in magnitude than flat platetheory predicted because of theeffect of the shear flow .  the decrementin heating of the separatedflow, relative to the correspondingattached flow, was found to comparewell with the expected results .
  surface pressures, impact andstatic pressure distributions in theflow field over the plate, and localheating rates were measured on aflat plate with various leading-edgediameters .  the tests were conductedat a mach number of 4.7 and a freestreamreynolds number of 3.8x10 perfoot .  it was found that the shape ofthe shock wave indicated the existenceof an outward deflection of the flowover the plate .  the flow deflectioncaused an outward deflection of theshock-wave asymptote of approximatelythe shock-wave angle calculatedincluding boundary-layer growth .  themach number distributions in theshear layer evaluated from pitot andstatic pressure surveys agreed withpredictions based on shock-wave shape .the predicted turbulent heattransfercoefficients for the bluntedflat plates agreed with the measuredheat-transfer coefficients .  acomparison between the measured heattransfercoefficients for the bluntedflat plates and the calculatedcoefficients for a sharp leading-edgedplate indicated that the coefficientswere highest near the leadingedge of the most blunted plate .  themeasured heat-transfer coefficientsdropped to approximately 80 percentof the sharp-plate values at aconsiderable distance from the leadingedge for all of the blunted flat plates .
  an attempt is made to develop a second approximation to thesolution of problems of supersonic flow which can be solved byexisting first-order theory .  the method of attack adopted is aniteration process using the linearized solution as the first step .  for plane flow it is found that a particular integral of theiteration equation can be written down at once in terms of thefirst-order solution .  the second-order problem is therebyreduced to an equivalent first-order problem and can be readilysolved .  at the surface of an isolated body, the solution reducesto the well-known result of busemann .  the plane case isconsidered in some detail insofar as it gives insight into thenature of the iteration process .  again, for axially symmetric flow the problem is reduced to afirst-order problem by the discovery of a particular integral .for smooth bodies, the second-order solution can then be calculatedby the method of von karman and moore .  bodieswith corners are also treated by a slight modification of themethod .  the second-order solution for cones represents aconsiderable improvement over the linearized result .  secondordertheory also agrees well with several solutions for otherbodies of revolution calculated by the numerical method ofcharacteristics .  for full three-dimensional flow, only a partial particularintegral has been found .  as an example of a more generalproblem, the solution is derived for an inclined cone .  thepossibility of treating other inclined bodies of revolution andthree-dimensional wings is discussed briefly .
  this study deals with unsteady compressible laminar boundarylayers on an infinitely extended porous plate .  an integralsolution based on two types of assumed velocity and temperatureprofiles is presented for the general case where the unsteadyfree-stream velocity and rate of surface suction or injection areboth arbitrary .  also indicated is an exact solution, applicable,however, only to certain specific unsteady free-stream and surfacesuction or injection variations .  the reliability and rangeof validity of the integral solutions is then established on thebasis of numerical results from the exact solution .  finally,several general qualitative conclusions of the unsteady effectsof free-stream velocity and surface suction or injection on laminarboundary-layer behavior are made .
  this paper is concernedwith the motion of a circular cone, ofnot too blunt an angle, through air at highspeed .  if the direction of motion ofthe cone coincides with its axis of symmetry,the resulting air flow is well known .here we consider the perturbation producedby a small /yaw/--i.e., the case inwhich the cone is moving not quite in thedirection of its axis .  the results areconfirmed experimentally, and have applicationsto ballistics, though we are notconcerned with the latter here,. they mayalso be useful as providing a check onvarious approximate methods of widerapplicability .  the square of the yaw isneglected--an approximation of which thevalidity is discussed .  (similar methodscan be applied to the second-order effectsof the yaw, which are also of ballisticsignificance,. but the computations have notyet been completed .)  it should beobserved that, because of the lack of symmetry,the flow will be neither irrotationalnor isentropic .
paper presents brief discussions of many topics currently of interest in the flutter field . these include /a/ the sonic speed case, /b/oscillating pressure field of propellers, /c/ wing flutter with variousconfigurations including effects of body modes, and /d/ propeller stallflutter .
  linearized slender-body theoryis applied to the computation ofaerodynamic forces on an oscillating,or deforming, body in supersonicflow .  the undeformed body is a bodyof revolution and the deformed bodyis represented by movement of a linethrough the centers of the crosssections which are assumed to remaincircular .  the time dependence isbased on sinusoidal motion .  for a body of vanishing thicknessthe slender-body theory yieldsthe apparent mass approximation as itis obtained for incompressiblecrossflow around a cylinder .  both linearized slender-body theoryand the apparent mass approximationare used to calculate the pitchingmomentcoefficients on a rigidslender body with a parabolic arc nosecone, and these coefficients arecompared with some experimental results .
  an electronic apparatus for automaticevaluation of the damping of a harmonicoscillation has been designed and constructed .the apparatus is based on the ideaof representing the harmonic dampedoscillation by a rotating vector on the screenof a cathode-ray tube in such a way, thatthe rate of decrease of the length of thevector is a measure of the damping .  theresults are obtained simultaneously withthe oscillation test as two numbers indecimal digits, which are inversely proportionalto the logarithmic decrement andthe frequency, respectively .  the apparatus,which is named the /dampometer/,has been used for some time for freeoscillation measurements of the dynamicstability derivatives of aeroplane modelsin windtunnels, and has proved to be verysatisfactory .  it gives results of usuallyhigher accuracy than evaluation methods incommon use, and permits a most considerablesaving of time .
  steady and fluctuating pressureshave been measured at mach numberswhich were varied from 0.6 to 1.2 ontwo bodies of revolution typical oftwo space-vehicle payload shapes, thecentaur and the able v .  the results of the investigationshowed that significant fluctuationsof pressure occurred on both bodiesbetween mach numbers of 0.75 and 1.00 .the maximum fluctuations measured atany mach number and angle of attackoccurred in the region of the normalshock wave as a result of shockwavemotion .  large regions of unsteadypressure also occurred as a resultof separation on the converging afterbodyof the able-v model .  the maximumpressure fluctuations occurring on thebodies increased with increasingangle of attack .  for angles other thanare indicated since pressure fluctuationswere larger on the upper halfof the bodies than on the lower half .  no definite conclusions could bedrawn regarding the form of thespectral densities of pressure fluctuationsin the region of the shockwave .  the spectral densities in regionsof separation following theshock wave appeared flat except for someincrease in energy level belowdue to slight model motions .
  the oscillating air forces on a two-dimensional wing oscillatingin pitch about the midchord have been measured at variousmean angles of attack and at mach numbers of 0.35 and 0.7 .the magnitudes of normal-force and pitching-moment coefficientswere much higher at high angles of attack than at low angles ofattack for some conditions .  large regions of negative dampingin pitch were found, and it was shown that the effect of increasingthe mach number from 0.35 to 0.7 was to decrease the initialangle of attack at which negative damping occurred .  measurements of the aerodynamic damping of a 10-percentthickand of a 3-percent-thick finite-span wing oscillating inthe first bending mode indicate no regions of negative dampingfor this type of motion over the range of variables covered .  thedamping measured at high angles of attack was generally largerthan that at low angles of attack .
  theoretical buckling stressesare determined in explicit form forcircular cylinders with circumferentialand axial stiffening .  theloadings are axial compression, radialpressure, hydrostatic pressure,and torsion .  analyses were confinedto moderate-length and long cylinders.  the investigation was basedupon the use of a form of donnell'sequation derived by taylor which isapplicable to orthotropic cylinders .the derivation of this equation ispresented in this report .
  the increasing use of fiber and whisker reinforcedmaterials makes necessary the availability ofmethods of analyzing cylinders and cones composedof an orthotropic material .  this paper treatsthe buckling of such shells under a combinationof axial compression and uniform external pressure .the differential equation approach of flugge isused, and the resulting buckling equation is presentedin terms of axial and circumferentialbending rigidities, shear rigidity, poisson's ratio,geometry parameters and mode shapes .  designcurves are presented which allow quick determinationof critical loads on cylinders, and, by usingthe equivalent cylinder concept, on conical shellsof small included angle .  the curves also lendthemselves to /tailoring/ of materials to fit the loadcarrying requirements of the structure .
  a small-deflection theory for general instability of orthotropiccircular cylindrical shells has been derived for external pressure,torsion, and axial compression .  for the first two types of loading,comparison of the theory with experimental data for orthotropiccylinders reveals agreement comparable with that obtainedfor isotropic shells .  for axial compression, experimentaldata have been found to agree reasonably well with theory fororthotropic cylinders, in contrast to the agreement usually obtainedfor isotropic cylinders .
  considerable interest is currently centered on therole of deformation and flow types of plasticitytheories in the solution of stability problems .  forthin flat plates, deformation theory combined withclassical stability theory appears to yield results whichare in substantially good agreement with test data .on the other hand, flow or incremental theories appearto require the introduction of initial imperfections inorder to obtain a satisfactory degree of correlation withtests .  thus, in view of the current state of development ofplastic stability theory, it appears fruitful to exploitthe mathematical simplicity inherent in deformationtheory in the investigation of the plastic stability ofthin shells .  although there may be theoretical objectionsto deformation theories as a class, test data onflat plates do suggest the predictive value of the resultsobtained from this theory .  in this paper, a set of equilibrium differential equationsfor the plastic buckling of thin shells of constantunequal radii is derived .  this set of three equationsapplies to flat plates, cylinders, and spheres under anyloading system leading to buckling .  for particularproblems such as buckling of cylinders under axialcompression, torsion or lateral pressure, and spheresunder external pressure, the set of equations can bereduced to a single eighth-order partial differentialequation of the donnell type in terms of the radial displacementonly .  these donnell-type equations areused to obtain solutions for plastic buckling of spheresunder external pressure and long and moderate lengthcylinders under lateral pressure or torsion loads .  thelimiting cases of a simply supported flat plate undercompression or shear, represent the solutions for shortcylinders under lateral pressure or torsion, respectively .
  on the basis of modern plasticity considerations, a unifiedtheory of plastic buckling applicable to both columns and plateshas been developed .  for uniform compression, the theoryshows that long columns which bend without appreciabletwisting require the tangent modulus and that long flangeswhich twist without appreciable bending require the secantmodulus .  structures that both bend and twist when theybuckle require a modulus which is a combination of the secantmodulus and the tangent modulus .
  based on assumptions which haveled to the best agreement betweentheory and test data on inelastic bucklingof flat plates, a general setof equilibrium differential equationsfor the plastic buckling of cylindershas been derived .  these equationshave been used to obtain solutionsfor the compressive and torsionalbuckling of long cylinders inthe yield region .  test data are presented which indicatesatisfactory agreement withthe theoretical plasticity-reductionfactors in most cases .  where adifference in results exists, test dataare in substantially better agreementwith the results obtained by use ofthe maximum-shear law ratherthan the octahedral-shear law to transformaxial stress-strain data toshear stress-strain data .
in a recent paper lee treated the complex problem of theplastic buckling and postbuckling behavior of an axially compressedcylindrical shell containing initial imperfections, representingan important step forward in our understanding of thiscommon, yet perplexing, structural element .  lee drew twomajor conclusions ..  (a) even with initial imperfections theincremental theory of plasticity considerably overestimates thebuckling strength as compared with the deformation theory,which is in substantially good agreement with experiments, andstrength of cylindrical shells subject to axial compression aresignificant .  it is the purpose of this note to discuss the second conclusionin terms of lee's experimental and theoretical results, other experimentaldata on inelastic buckling of 7075-t6 aluminumalloycylinders, and recent theoretical results on the inelasticbuckling of cylinders in the axisymmetric and circumferentialmodes .  in particular, this writer does not believe that lee hasproved that initial imperfections are important for the groupof cylinders that he has tested .  on the contrary, it is believedthat initial imperfections are completely insignificant for thisgroup of cylinders although of probable significance in othercases .
in 1933, donnell succeeded in simplifying the equations of equilibriumfor a circular cylindrical shellhe obtained simple relations between the critical buckling shearingstress and the physical properties of a thin circular cylinder underpure torsion .  his approach reduces the tedious computations involvedin the classical solutions and is still in good agreement with them .furthermore, it is easy to show that the well-known classical solutionfor critical compressive stress of the cylinder under axial compressioncan readily be obtained from donnell's equation .
  newtonian flow theory has been used to develop a procedurefor the design of minimum drag bodies of revolution having agiven thickness ratio and center of pressure .  it is shown that the optimum body shape is independent oflift .  center of pressure location, however, exerts a powerfulinfluence on both the shape of the body and on the drag coefficientat zero lift .
  this paper discusses the collapse by instability of thinwalledcylindrical vessels subjected to external pressure .the most important of the theoretical and empiricalformulas that apply to this subject are presented in a commonnotation .  a new and simple instability formula isdeveloped .  three classes of tubes are considered ..  tubes of infinitelength,. tubes of finite length with uniform radial pressureonly,. and tubes of finite length with both uniformradial and axial pressure .  collapsing pressures calculatedby the various formulas are presented in tabularform as a means of comparing the formulas .  the formulas are discussed briefly and checked againstthe results of tests conducted at the u. s. experimentalmodel basin for the bureau of construction and repair,navy department .  this paper is a sequel to one previously published as apart of the work of the a.s.m.e. special research committeeon the strength of vessels under external pressure .
by using the well known analogy betweenthe bending of a beam on an elasticfoundation and the axial symmetric displacementof a cylinder, a physicalinsight is obtained for the buckling ofcylindrical shells under axial compression.  the technique is equivalentto classical small deflection theoryand provides good agreement with the moreelaborate solutions for the bucklingstrength of various sandwich, multi-layered,and orthotropic cylinders,including the effects of internal pressureor an elastic core .
  fifty-one flat rectangular sandwich-type panels were testedin edgewise compression with the unloaded edges of the panelsrestrained by v-grooves .  the sandwich consisted of papregfaces and a cellular cellulose acetate core .  the thickness of thefaces varied from 0.00675 to 0.02025 in.,. the core, from 0.066to 0.741 in.,. the width of the panel, from 4 to 11 in .  the lengthof the panel was always 10.5 in .  the buckled shape consisted ofa ripple of short wave length across the panel .  it was eithersymmetric, the two faces bulging out symmetrically accordingto sine curves, or skew, the two faces deflecting in the same senseaccording to sine curves having a phase angle of 90 .  a strain energy theory of buckling is presented for both thesymmetric and the skew cases, and the buckling load in the symmetriccase is also calculated by integration of the differentialequation .  the agreement between the theoretic and the experimentalbuckling stress is reasonable, that between the predictedand actual buckled shape good .  a simple formula is developedwhich permits a choice of the most suitable core material when themechanical properties of the face material are given .
  the effect of initial waviness on the wrinkling offaces in sandwich construction is studied .  formulae arederived to determine the failing stress when the faceswrinkle due to failure of the core in tension, compressionor shear .  the importance of core strength requirementsin maintaining surface smoothness is noted .  a comparisonof theory with experiments is made, and the agreementbetween the two is found to be reasonably good .the strength of the core .  williams has related the strengthof the core in tension and shear to an arbitrarily assumedinitial irregularity which, to ensure laminar flow in a wingis assumed to have a maximum admissible value (initialwave amplitude critical wavelength=0.0005 to 0.001) .
  the general instability load of a ring-stiffened, circularcylindrical shell under hydrostatic pressure is determinedby analyzing an equivalent orthotropic shell .  a set ofdifferential equations for the stability of an orthotropicshell is derived and solved for the case of a shell with simpleend supports .  the solution is presented in terms ofparameters of the ring-stiffened, isotropic shell, and arelatively simple expression for the general instability loadis obtained .  some numerical examples and graphs of resultsare presented .  in addition, an energy-method solutionto the problem is outlined, and the energy and displacementfunctions that could be used in carrying out arayleigh-ritz approximation are indicated .
  a comprehensive review of failureof stiffened curved plates andshells is presented .  panel instability in stiffenedcurved plates and general instabilityof stiffened cylinders are discussed .the loadings considered for theplates are axial, shear, and thecombination of the two .  for the cylinders,bending, external pressure,torsion, transverse shear, and combinationsof these loads are considered .  general instability in stiffenedcylinders was investigated .  forbending and torsion loads, test dataand theory were correlated .  forexternal pressure several existingtheories were compared .  as a resultof this investigation a unified theoreticalapproach to analysis of generalinstability in stiffened cylinderswas developed .
  author considers elastic axial restraint which may be (1) activefrom the beginning of loading and (2) active only at the onsetof buckling .  buckling loads for the two cases are related by asimple conversion factor .  effect of the restraint on the axisymmetrictype buckling is negligible, but the amplification of thecritical load for the nonaxisymmetric type buckling may be verylarge for type (1) restraint .  design curves are included for arange of l d.and restraint stiffness .  results are of doubtfulvalue considering the known inadequacy of the linear theory ofbuckling under axial compression .
  tests are described of a number of machined-stiffened cylinderssubjected to external hydrostatic pressure, and the observedgeneral instability strengths compared with predictionsfrom theories of kendrick and nash .  agreement with kendrickwas found rather good .  results also are presented from electricalstrain gages which show in detail the growth of embryoniclobes and nonlinear characteristics of deformation at the thresholdof buckling .  weakening effects of imperfect circularity arediscussed .
a simple extension of southwell's method is presented whereby theelastic general instability pressure of ring-stiffened cylindricalshells subject to external hydrostatic pressure may be determined .  anactual application of the method is illustrated in the paper and theresults of several other examples are summarized .
  it has recently become apparent, througha rigorous stress analysis of a specific casethat designing torispherical shells by thecurrent edition of the asme code on unfiredpressure vessels can lead to failure duringproof-testing of the vessel .  the purposeof the present paper is to show in whatrespects the code fails to give accurate results .as an illustrative example, a hypotheticalpressure vessel with a torispherical headhaving a diameter-thickness ratio of 440 wasselected .  the supports of the vessel wereconsidered to be either on the main cylinderor around the torus .  the vessel was subjectedto internal pressure and the elasticstresses in it were determined rigorously andby the code .  a comparison of the tworevealed that the code predicted stresses in thehead which were less than one half of thoseactually occurring .  furthermore, the codegave no indication of the presence of highcompressive circumferential direct stresseswhich exceeded 30,000 psi for practicallythe entire torus .  if the head had been fabricatedusing a steel with a yield point ofwould have failed or undergone largedeformations, whereas the code would have predictedthat it was safe .  the code's rulesfor torispherical heads are thus in need ofrevision for certain geometries .  theimplications of the foregoing results are currentlybeing studied by the asme,. in the interim,however, designers should exercise care inapplying the code to torispherical shells .  it is also shown in the paper that the useof the membrane state as a particular solutionof the differential equations is not agood approximation for toroidal shells of thetype considered .
the yield surface for a thin cylindrical shellis shown to be a very good approximation tothe yield surface for any symmetricallyloaded thin shell of revolution .  hexagonalprism approximations to this yield surface,appropriate for pressure vessel analysis, aredescribed and discussed in terms of limitanalysis .  procedures suitable for findingupper and lower bounds on the limit pressurefor the complete vessel are developed andevaluated .  they are applied for illustrationto a portion of a toroidal zone or knuckle heldrigidly at the two bounding planes .  thecombined end force and moment which can becarried by an unflanged cylinder also is discussed .
  the failure under hydrostatic test of a large storage vessel designedin accordance with current practice stimulated earlieranalytical studies .  this paper gives curves and a table useful forthe design and analysis of the knuckle region of a thin torisphericalor toriconical head of an unfired cylindrical vessel .  a simplebut surprisingly adequate approximate formula is presented forthe limit pressure, np, at which appreciable plastic deformationsoccur ..where p is the design pressure, is the yield stress of the material,and n is the factor of safety .  the thickness t of the knuckleregion is assumed uniform .  upper and lower bound calculationswere made for ratios of knuckle radius r to cylinder diameter dof 0.06, 0.08, 0.10, 0.12, 0.14, and 0.16, and ratios of spherical capradius l to d of 1.0, 0.9, 0.8, 0.7, and 0.6 .  toriconic1a heads maybe designed or analyzed closely enough by interpreting intable 1 as the complement of the half angle of the cone .
  the author obtains asymptotic solutions to the problemof rotationally symmetric small deflection of thin toroidalelastic shells .  he first reduces the problem to that of integratinga single linear nonhomogeneous ordinary differentialequation involving two parameters .  asymptotic formulaefor the complementary function are obtained by applyingthe general method of langer (trans.amer.math.soc.33,advantage of yielding results valid near the points wherethe tangent plane is perpendicular to the axis of revolution,where the methods of asymptotic integration customary inshell theory fail (see the preceding review) .  for two problemsin which only the complementary function is required,the author's results are compared with those obtained bywissler (dissertation, zurich, 1916) by a method of powerseries expansion,. the agreement is within 4 or better .  theauthor observes that the usual method of obtaining asymptoticexpressions for a particular integral, being based onusing as an approximation the complementary functionobtained from the membrane theory, will fail near pointswhere the tangent plane is perpendicular to the axis ofrevolution .  he therefore introduces a new method, whichhe states was developed jointly with e. reissner .  he applieshis results to the cases of an joint loaded symmetricallyand parallel to its axis, a corrugated pipe subject to axialload, and a corrugated cylinder subject to axial pressure .many numerical calculations are involved and there are twotables of functions occuring in the solutions .
  method of asymptotic integration developed by e. reissner andauthor is refined, and solutions previously obtained for problemsof bending of curved tube and of a toroidal expansion joint subjectto an axial force are generalized and extended .  results arecompared to those obtained by l. beskin .  for large values of acertain parameter, agreement is good .
  the flow of a rarefied gas through a circular tube is considered .molecules entering the tube have a mass velocity directed downthe tube, as well as a randomly directed thermal velocity .  it isassumed that the conditions for free-molecule flow hold, and thatmolecules striking the tube wall are reflected diffusely .  themass velocity and tube dimensions are restricted only by thelimitation to free-molecule flow .  the theory is illustrated by anexample of the effect of an entrance tube on the measurement ofpressure and density by a gage placed on a satelite .
  usaf-sponsored development of a simple expression for shockstandoffdistance, by consideration of an apropriate specific-heatratio behind the shock .  the theory gives predictions which are almostas accurate as those of the van dyke and hays methods .
  the incompressible laminar far wake behind an oscillatingvehicle is analyzed with the use of the oseen linearization, andthe assumption that the wake cross section is axisymmetric .time-wise drag variations are thus represented as changes in thewake diameter and velocity defect .  it is shown that the unsteadinessin this flow can be predicted by a quasi-steady theory .
  the effect of wall divergence (in excess of the normalvalue given for compensating the boundary layer growthon the tunnel walls), on the simulation of sonic flows insolid wall wind tunnels is presented in this note which isa condensed version of ref. 1 .
  a shock tunnel is described inwhich high-enthalpy, real-gas airflows can be generated with flow timesof about 180 milliseconds .  thisshock tunnel is operated with a combustionheateddriver gas and consistsof a combustion chamber, shock tube,supersonic nozzle, test section, andvacuum tank .  an essential feature ofthis shock tunnel is a means forachieving a constant-pressure air reservoirfor the duration of the test .air streams with velocities in excess ofachieved at a mach number of about 10 .the corresponding stream totalenthalpy is about 4,500 btu lb and thestagnation pressure is 3.25 psia .
a collection of data from a number of brief investigations made withthree different models to determine the character of the slipstream flowalong the ground is presented for multiple-propeller tilt-wing vtol aircraftconfigurations operating near the ground .  in general, the testsinvolved tuft surveys and slipstream dynamic-pressure measurements forseveral tilt-wing vtol models .  a more extensive series of tests,including some measurements of the erosion of gravel by the slipstreamand some measurements of the unsteady rolling, yawing, and pitchingmoments, was also made on one of the models operating in the hoveringcondition near the ground .the results of the flow studies indicated the presence of a strongerand deeper slipstream flow along the center line of the aircraft, and tosome extent along parallel planes between adjacent propellers (on onewing), than to the side of the aircraft .  this effect is caused by anintensification of the individual slipstreams as they meet at the planesof flow symmetry .  the intensified flow along the center line of theaircraft is amplified by the presence of the fuselage and causes thedynamic pressure to be greater in front of the aircraft than would beexpected on the basis of the slipstream of the individual propellers .in the erosion tests it was found that gravel, if sufficiently small,was rapidly eroded by the slipstream and that this gravel could bethrown high into the air if it struck even very small fixed obstacles onthe ground (obstacles with a height less than the diameter of thegravel) .  results of the investigation of moment fluctuationsindicated that there are large, erratic variations of rolling, yawing,and pitching moments and that the propellers, reacting to an erraticinflow from the recirculating slipstream, are the primary source ofthese moments .
an equation is derived for the elastic stability of a circular cylindricalshell which is filled with a soft elastic core and is subjected togeneral axially-symmetric lateral pressure combined with a centralaxial force .  numerical results are given for three lateral pressuredistributions of interest in rocket motor case analysis..  uniformpressure, linearly varying pressure, and a circumferential bandof pressure located at an arbitrary distance from one end of thecylinder .  comparison is made with results of previous theoreticaland experimental investigations, where available .
several theoretical and experimental investigations on the bucklingof cylinders due to both axial and circumferential thermal stresses arereviewed .  differences that exist among the various results are discussedand areas of future work are indicated .
a general method has been developed, using the methods of kinetictheory, whereby the surface temperatures of bodies can be calculated forsteady flight at any speed in a rarefied gas .  the particular solutionwas made for a flat plate., however, the calculations can be easilyextended to bodies of arbitrary shape .it was found that the aerodynamic heating problem in the absence ofsolar radiation, that is, for the case of nocturnal flight, becomes ofnegligible importance at altitudes of 125 miles and higher and up tosteady flight speeds of 36,000 feet per second .  the effect of solarradiation, for the case of daytime flight, becomes increasinglyimportant as the flight altitude is increased .  at an altitude of 150miles and higher, solar radiation is the predominating factor thatdetermines skin temperature .  owing to the strong effect of solarradiation on skin temperatures at high altitudes, the desirability ofnocturnal flight is indicated in order to minimize skin temperatures .in order to maintain low skin temperatures, it was found that theangle of inclination of the body with respect to the flight path shouldbe kept as small as possible .  this may be accomplished in practiceby designing the body to be finely tapered and by flying the body atsmall angles of attack .it is pointed out that skin temperatures may be reduced by insuringthermal contact between portions of the skin inclined at positiveand negative angles with respect to the flight path .  as much surfaceas possible should be inclined at negative angles .  practically,this may be accomplished by boattailing the body .in the event that an internal skin-cooling system is employed, it isshown that the rate of internal cooling must be of the same order ofmagnitude or greater than the rate at which heat is lost naturallyby emitted radiation .  if the cooling rate is below the naturalradiation rate, cooling has little effect upon skin temperatures .it is shown that, in the case of a missile designed to fly over a widerange of altitudes and speeds, it is desirable to make the emissivityof the skin as high as possible .  this conclusion, however, isbased upon a skin surface for which the emissivity is independentof the wave length of the emitted and absorbed radiant energy .a possible method of reducing surface temperatures is indicated bythe decrease in skin temperature which accompanies a decrease inthermal accommodation coefficient .  this phenomenon may beused to advantage if it is possible to decrease the accommodationcoefficient by altering the surface characteristics of the skin .
the problem of knudsen flow through a circular capillary has beenoften discussed, usually by the momentum transfer method .  however,p. clausing gave a rigorous formulation for the problem and obtained anintegral equation for which he gave an approximate solution .  fromtime to time the accuracy of clausing's solution has been questionedand since clausing did not give a rigorous estimate of his error wehave reinvestigated the problem .
conditions for the existence of similar solutions are known for (a) twodimensional,incompressible, steady and nonsteady laminar boundarylayers and (b) three-dimensional, incompressible, steady, laminarboundary layers for a body of revolution rotating in a fluid at rest ora body of revolution in a rotating fluid flow .  corresponding conditionsfor the existence of similar temperature boundary layers inboth cases are given for constant and variable wall temperatures .  thegeneral conclusion is that, in all these cases, with or without viscousheating, and with constant wall temperature, conditions for the existenceof similar velocity boundary layers are at the same time theconditions for the existence of similar temperature boundary layers .if the wall temperature is variable, the conditions for the existenceof similar velocity boundary layers are at the same time the conditionsfor the existence of similar temperature boundary layers if thewall temperature varies as a power of the local free-stream velocityor surface velocity .  numberical solutions are given for the nondimensionaltemprature distributions function and the nondimensional temperaturegradient at the wall for several prandtl numbers in the caseof a rotating flow over an infinite plate at rest .
atmospheric density was determined from a singly mounted ionizationgauge flown on an air force satellite . included is a brief descriptionof the experiment and theory as well as a discussion of some of theproblems involved in performing these measurements . density data aregiven for the altitude range of 370 to 400 km during early morning hours for the two days 17 and 18 june 1961 . results are compared with thoseof the 1961 revised u.s. standard atmosphere .
  recently, progress has been made in the theoretical calculation ofthe inviscid flow between the detached shock wave and the surface ofa blunt body travelling at supersonic speed .  detailed experimentaldata are needed for comparison .  experiments have been made in thesupersonic wind tunnels of the jet propulsion laboratory on spheres,disks, and blunted cones over the mach number range 1.8 to 5.0 in air .surface pressures, shock wave shape and detachment distance, certainvelocity gradients, the sonic line location, and some streamline pathswere determined .  the sonic line is found as the trace of the terminationpoint of a weak shock generated by a probe ahead of the model .for a sphere, good agreement between theory (of van dyke) and experimentis found .
 studies in maths . and mechs .,  the oscillating vortex wake behind an obstacle atreynolds numbers of order 10 is studied by means of theoseen approximation .
the degree to which experimental results obtained under choking conditionsin a wind tunnel with solid walls simulate those associated withan unbounded flow with free-stream mach number 1 is investigated for the cases of two-dimensional and axisymmetric flows . it is found that aclose resemblance does indeed exist in the vicinity of the body, andthat the results obtained in this way are generally at least as accurate as those obtained in a transonic wind tunnel with partly open testsection . some of the results indicate, however, that substantial interferenceeffects, particularly those of the wave reflection type, maybe encountered under certain conditions, both in choked wind tunnels and in transonic wind tunnels, and that the reduction of these interference effects to acceptable limits may require the use of models of unusually small size .
the boundary layers at the test section walls of a transonic wind tunnel are known to reduce the wall interference . in the present paper thiseffect is studied by means of small perturbation theory, assuming viscosityto be negligible when perturbing a turbulent boundary layer . anapproximation for thin boundary layers leads to a modified boundarycondition at the wall of the test section, expressing the normalstreamline slope induced by changes in mass flow density and crossflowwithin the boundary layer . this boundary condition is applied to thelinearized equations of subsonic flow and to the non-linear transonicequations at choking, the cases of plane and circular test sections only being treated in detail .the results of linear theory show that all corrections except thethree-dimensional angle-of-attack correction are considerably reduced by the presence of the boundary layers at mach numbers greater than 0.9,the essential part of their influence being due to the change of massflow density with pressure . in the case of choking the analysis indicatesthat the presence of boundary layers will increase the maximummodel size for which the flow can be interpreted as corresponding tomach number one in free flight . finally, the technique of using artificialthickening of the wall boundary layers for a reduction of wallinterference is considered, though without reaching a definite conclusionas to its value as compared to other techniques .
pressure distribution measurements and drag determination by means ofbalance measurements have been carried out for a number of models athigh subsonic velocity in wind tunnels, where the boundary layer of thewalls has been varied . within the investigated range it appeared that a thickening of the boundary layer reduced the disturbing influence ofthe walls, which also caused an increase of the choking mach number .the phenomenon described should be of a certain importance from thepoint of view of wind tunnel technique, since it is possible to increase the choking velocity for a given model by means of thickening theboundary layer .
  an experimental investigationhas been made of the attenuation ofstrong shock waves in air in a shocktube .  time-history measurementswere made of the static pressure atseveral stations in the wall of thetube .  the internal diameter of thetube is 3.75 inches .  shock-wavevelocitydata were taken for a distancealong the tube of about 120 feet .the range of the shock-wave mach numbercovered was from 5 to 10 andthe initial pressure ahead of the shockwave varied from 5 to 100 millimetersof mercury .  hydrogen and heliumwere used as driver gases .  a helium-driven shock wave was foundto decay only about one-halfas rapidly as a hydrogen-driven shock wave .the pressure level hadlittle effect on the attenuation rate ofa shock wave of given strengthfor the pressure range investigated .  thestatic-pressure measurementsindicated that a severe pressure gradientexisted in the latter portionof the air flow .  this gradient limits thetesting time useful forobtaining reliable aerodynamic data .
a hypersonic shock tunnel has been developed for obtaining fluid mechanicinformation at the high mach numbers and corresponding stagnationtemperatures encountered in flight by long range ballistic vehicles andsatellites . this report describes the hypersonic shock tunnel and presentssome of the results obtained in the driven tube and in the nozzlehelium is ignited in the driver to produce strong shock waves in air .a shock velocity in air as high as 55,000 fps with a calculated equilibriumtemperature of 16,000 k has been produced in the driven tube . the effects of high stagnation temperatures upon the detached shock waveand the pressure distribution for blunt bodies have been observed in the nozzle test section . the detachment distance devreased greatly at high temperatures . the pressure distribution for the hemisphere was foundto be less than that predicted by the modified newtonian theory . shockwave boundary layer interaction at the leading edge of a flat plate wasobserved, and the results agreed with the analytical prediction . a detachedshock wave was observed for a blunt two-dimensional body at verylow densities in the test section with a flow mach number of 19.6 .
the /tailored-interface/ hypersonic shock tunnel provides a means forproducing the high mach number, high stagnation temperature flowconditions encountered in hypersonic flight .  various gasdynamicphenomena associated with shock tunnels are discussed, and experimentalevidence of the successful application of this technique is presented .as an indication of its research application, the results of heattransferexperiments on a hemisphere-cylinder model are presentedand compared with theory .
a technique has been developed by which air can be shock-compressedby helium to 3660 degrees rankine to generate a 6500-foot-per-secondair stream with a flow duration of 40 milliseconds .  the resultingequipment is described .  experiments were conducted to determinerates of heat transfer to transverse circular cylinders of 0.003-,greater than 100 .  the cylinders were tested at a nominal mach numberof 11 with a stagnation reynolds number (evaluated with free-streammass flow and stagnation viscosity of 4.00 times 10 to the 4th powerper foot .
  a review of recent work in gaseous detonationis presented .  early work is briefly mentioned andtreatises listed .  theoretical calculations ofchapman-jouguet detonations are reviewed, comparedand the ambiguity concerning the speed ofsound in a reacting gas mixture discussed .  experimentalchapman-jouguet measurements arereviewed .  recent studies of the interior of a detonationwave are presented .  standing detonationwave research, detonation limits, two-dimensionaldetonations, spectra, ionization and magnetohydrodynamictreatments are brought to the reader'sattention .  a qualitative description of thedevelopment of a flame to a detonation is presented .experimental observations are examined andrecent theoretical attempts to explain these observationsare reviewed .
  the results of an experimental investigation of the laminar heattransfer at the stagnation point of a blunt body in partially dissociatedair are presented and are compared to the theoreticaltreatment of fay and riddell .  heat-transfer results are presentedfor air temperatures as high as 8,000 k. where more thanperiments were performed in a shock tube and the new experimentaltechniques and principles are discussed briefly .  simulationof flight stagnation conditions at velocities up to satellite velocityof 26,000 ft. sec. is shown to be possible in shock tubes anddata has been obtained over a large altitude range at these velocities.
  a force-test investigation hasbeen made to determine the aerodynamiccharacteristics of a scalemodel of a tilt-wing verticaltake-off-and-landingairplane in theshort- and long-wing configurations .the model had two 6-blade dual-rotatingpropellers that were not interconnectedmounted on a wing that couldbe tilted up to an incidence angleof about 90 for vertical take-off and landing .  the investigation included measurementsof both the longitudinaland lateral stability and controlcharacteristics in the normal-forwardflight,transition, and hovering ranges .tests in the forward-flightand transition conditions were made atvarious wing incidences and powerconditions .  tests in the hoveringcondition were made in the presenceof the ground .  the data are presentedwithout analysis .
  a wind-tunnel investigation hasbeen made to determine the aerodynamiccharacteristics of a scalemodel of a tilt-wing vertical-takeoff-and-landingaircraft .  the modelhad two 3-blade single-rotationpropellers with hinged (flapping)blades mounted on the wing, whichcould be tilted from an incidenceof 4 for forward flight to 86 forhovering flight .  the investigation includedmeasurements of both the longitudinaland lateral stability and controlcharacteristics in both the normalforward flight and the transitionranges .  tests in the forward-flightcondition were made for several valuesof thrust coefficient, and testsin the transition condition were madeat several values of wing incidencewith the power varied to cover a rangeof flight conditions from forwardacceleration(or climb) conditions todeceleration (or descent) conditionsthe control effectiveness of theall-movable horizontal tail, the aileronsand the differential propeller pitchcontrol was also determined .  thedata are presented without analysis .
  an investigation has been madeto study the effect of ground proximityon the aerodynamic characteristicsof a four-engine vertical-takeoff-and-landingtransport-airplanemodel with tilting wing and propellers.  tests were made with the wingat an angle of incidence of 90,the position used for vertical take-offor landing .  with the model atvarious heights above the ground, thelift, drag, and pitching momentwere measured and tuft studies weremade to determine the flow fieldcaused by the propeller slipstream .data were obtained for the completemodel, for the model with horizontaltail removed, and for the wingpropellercombination alone .  the results of the investigationshowed that, when the model washovering near the ground, there was astrong upwash in the plane ofsymmetry and also an increase in liftof about 10 percent of the propellerthrust .  about one-half of thislift resulted from an increasein propeller thrust and one-half resultedfrom an up load on the fuselageinduced by the upwash .  as the modelapproached the ground, it alsoexperienced an increasing nose-downpitching moment that evidentlyresulted from the up load on the fuselage,the rear part of which waslonger than the front part .  the additionof the horizontal tail whichwas located about halfway up the verticaltail did not increase thenose-down pitching moment because thefuselage decreased the energy ofthe upwash before it reached the tail .
  dynamic-pressure measurement,in ground effect, have been obtainedabout a single-rotor helicopter anda dual-propeller vtol aircraft .  theresults indicate that the slipstreamdynamic pressure along the ground,some distance from the center ofrotation, is not a function of diskloading but merely a function ofthe gross weight or thrust of the aircraft.  furthermore, for a givengross weight the thickness of this outwardflowing sheet of air is lessfor a small-diameter propeller (higherdisk loading propeller) .  the variation of the dynamic-pressureflow field for single anddual propellers or rotors is significantlydifferent in the plane ofsymmetry between the two rotors thanin a direction normal to thisplane .  the interaction of the twoflows produces a region of upflowin this plane where the fuselage islocated, and the decay of the maximumdynamic pressure with distanceahead of the fuselage is slower .
  results of an investigation withsmall-scale equipment of the conditionsunder which the downwash froma hovering vertical-take-off-andlanding(vtol) aircraft will startsurface erosion indicate that theonset of erosion depends only on thedynamic pressure of the outwardflow of air near the surface .  for arotor or propeller at a height ofabout 1 slipstream diameter above thesurface, this surface dynamicpressure was found to be equal to thedisk loading .  for the vtol aircraftsupported by a ducted fan, thesurface dynamic pressure with theducted fan exit at a height of aboutone-half the exit-area loading .  thesurface dynamic pressure decreasesrapidly with increasing height of thevtol device .  erosion of sand and loose dirtstarted at surface dynamic pressuresof 1 to 3 lb sq ft, which is in generalagreement with helicopter experience.  thoroughly soaking the sand andloose-dirt surfaces increased theresistance to erosion to surface dynamicpressures of 30 to 50 lb sq ft .spray from water started at surfacedynamic pressures of 1.5 topressures up to about 1,000 lb sq ft .
  a full-scale, twin-propellervtol aircraft with a maximum grossweight of 3,400 pounds has beenoperated on the ground to study theeffect of downwash on several typesof ground surfaces .  static operation over loose snowindicated a zone of obliteratedvision ahead of the pilot in an arc ofapproximately 10 on each sideof the plane of symmetry .  an arc 10to 45 each side of the centerline was found to be an area of fairvisibility while the arc from 45to 90 was an area of poor visibility .  static operation in the presenceof loose surface material indicatedthat the downwash cleared thearea near the aircraft of theseparticles without recirculation ordamage to any components .  short-time operation at moderateforward speed over loose gravel,with the thrust axis at an angle ofin propeller-blade erosion and numeroussmall dents and fabric puncturesin the sides of the fuselage .the propeller-blade erosion wassuperficial except for the leadingedges where several layers of glassfiber were eroded .
  a summary is presented of thedamage experienced by a tilt-wingvtol stol aircraft as a result ofoperating from a level surface coveredwith loose gravel .  the damage wasinadvertently incurred as the aircraftwas performing a taxiing-turn maneuverover an area of level macadam surfacecontaining loose and embeddedcrushed stone .  observers from a chaseaircraft commented that the wing wastilted at approximately 76 withrespect to the ground when the damageoccurred .  deposits of stone in theopen fuselage, punctures in the rotorblade skin, and damage to the compressorblades of the engine occurreddue to the circulation of thecrushed gravel .
  all of the vtol research aircraftdiscussed in this paper have successfullydemonstrated conversion fromhovering to airplane flight andvice versa .  however, control about oneor more axes of these aircrafthas been inadequate in hovering flight .furthermore, ground interferenceeffects have been severe in some casesand have accentuated the inadequacyof control in hovering and very lowspeed flight .  stalling of wing surfaces has resultedin limitations in level-flightdeceleration and in descent, particularlyfor the tilt-wing aircraft, whichin this case is a very rudimentary type .minor modifications to the wingleading edge have, however, producedsurprisingly large and encouragingreductions in adverse stall effects .  height control in hovering and inlow-speed flight has proved tobe a problem for the aircraft not havingdirect control of the pitch ofthe rotors .  the other systems have shownundesirable time lags indevelopment of a thrust change .
  the results of two structural-loadssurveys are summarized .  thefirst loads program discussed concernsthe airframe vibratory loadsencountered during flight tests of thevz-2 tilt-wing vtol aircraftthroughout the operational range fromhover to cruise flight .  theprimary sources of airframe vibrationwere wing-stall buffeting andtail buffeting in descents .  the secondloads program discussed concernsthe initial results of astructural-loads survey conducted aspart of the wind-tunnel test of alarge-scale tilt-wing research model .this loads program deals with thesteady wing loads measured throughoutsimulated transition from hover tocruise .
  the stability under axial compression and lateral pressure of afinite circular-cylindrical shell with an elastic core is treated bymeans of donnell's equations .  the stability criterion is investigatedin detail for the general cylinder under axial compression orlateral pressure and for a particular cylinder under combinedloading .  comparisons are made with available experimentaldata .
  the effect of a soft elastic core upon thebuckling strength of a thin, circular, cylindrical shell isinvestigated experimentally .  two types of loading areconsidered ..  (a) axial compression, and (b) uniform radialbandloading, where the width of the band is small comparedto the length of the shell .  for each type of loading it is shown that the strengtheningeffect of the elastic core becomes more significantwith the increasing values of the radius-thickness ratio .for example, it is shown that for the geometric and elasticconstants considered it is possible, with the presenceof the core, to increase the axial buckling stress by asmuch as 65 percent over the values found for those withoutan elastic core .  the elastic core is even more effectivein stabilizing the shell against buckling due to bandloading, the peak pressure required to buckle the filledspecimen being 7.30 times that required to buckle theunfilled shell .
two problems illustrating the effect of nonuniformity of loadingon the buckling characteristics of circular cylinders areinvestigated .  the first problem deals with the effect oflinearly varying axial compressive stress, such as would beproduced by the weight of the propellant in a solid-propellantengine case .  the results indicate that the ratio of the maximumcritical compressive stress induced by the shear load to thecritical uniform compressive stress varies from 1.9 forthe curvature parameter z equal to 1.6 as zbecomes infinite .  in particular, the increase in stress isless than 20 per sq. ft. for z greater than 100 .the stability of thin cylinders loaded by lateral externalpressure varying linearly in the longitudinal direction is alsoinvestigated .  the results indicate that for z greater than 100,the buckling coefficients are proportional to squareroot z .
various aspects of the theory of buckling are expoundedin many treatises (1 to 15) .  the books of bleich (2)and salmon (3) contain large bibliographies .  goodierdevelopments in buckling theory .  numerous references areappended to hoff's article .  nearly all publications on bucklingof shells, available in the u.s.a. (to 1956), are listed inthe bibliographies on shells by nash (18) .  the sectionready guide to recent literature .
  a short discussion is given of the possible methods forcomputing the stresses caused in cylindrical shells by localloadings .  it is concluded that the method of developingthe loads and displacements into double fourier seriesleads to formulas which are best suited for numericalevaluation .  with this method the pertinent expressionsfor the displacements caused by radial loads are found byreducing the three partial differential equations of theshell theory to an eighth-order differential equation in theradial displacements, which is similar to, but not identicalwith, those derived by donnell and yuan .  insertion of thefourier series for the radial displacements and the externalloading in this equation leads directly to a double seriesexpression of the radial displacement w in terms of the loadfactors of the radial load .  this results in the pertinentexpressions for the other displacements and for the bendingmoments and membrane forces .  the cases of radialloading considered here and those which can be reduced toit are (a) a load uniformly distributed within a rectangle,tion, uniformly distributed over a short distance in thecircumferential direction, (d) a moment in the circumferentialdirection, uniformly distributed over a shortdistance in the longitudinal direction .  for all these loadingsthe load factors, which have to be used in thepertinent formulas for the displacements, bending moments,and membrane forces, are computed .  for the caseof tangential loading an eighth-order differential equationis derived in terms of the radial displacement and thetangential load .  using this equation, formulas for the displacements,bending moments, and membrane forces fortangential loading within a rectangle are found .
  twenty-five ring-stiffened circularcylinders were loaded to failurein bending .  the results arepresented in the form of design curveswhich are applicable to cylinders withheavy rings that fail as a resultof local buckling .
  results of several experimentalinvestigations are presented whichindicate the effects of rapid heatingon the bending strength of multiwebbeams and ring-stiffened cylinders .it is shown that thermal stressesreduce the bending load carried atbuckling by both beams and cylinders .the influence of thermal stress onmaximum load is found to dependlargely on the mode of buckling .for beams that buckle locally, noapparent effect of thermal stress onthe maximum load has been found .a reduction in maximum load has beenobserved for beams that buckle inthe wrinkling mode and for cylinders .
  thirteen stainless-steel ring-stiffenedcylinders were subjected to a purebending load and heated rapidly untilbuckling occurred .  for most of the cylindersthe heating was not uniform aroundthe circumference so that appreciableaxial thermal stresses were present .elementary thermal stress theory was foundto be inadequate for the prediction ofthese thermal stresses, but a method wasdeveloped that would give satisfactorythermal stress results .  by properlyaccounting for the thermal stress, thebuckling load could be correlated with atheory for the buckling of an axiallycompressed ring-stiffened cylinder that isuniformly heated .
two-dimensional asymmetric and three-dimensionalinviscid blunt-body flows are analyzedusing a new method .  the method is inverse, thatis, the shock-wave shape and freestreamconditions are taken as known, and the body shapeand flow field are to be determined .  resultsat zero angle of attack are obtained as a specialcase of the general problem .  solutions atzero angle are calculated for a variety of body shapesat freestream mach numbers ranging frominfinity to 1.85 .  the ratio of specific heats, is takenas 1.4 .  comparison with results obtainedusing van dyke's and garabedian's numericalsolutions indicates that the method underconsideration is more accurate than the van dykemethod for determining stand-off distance .solutions are obtained for parabolic and paraboloidalshock waves at small angle of attack andinfinite freestream mach number,. assumes thevalues 1.4, 1.2, 1.1, and 1.05 .  for all cases,the streamline that wets the body passes throughthe shock wave slightly above the pointwhere the shock is normal and thus does not possessmaximum entropy .  these results providecounter examples to the conjecture that anyisolated convex body in a supersonic streamis wetted by the streamline of maximum entropy .
  the laminar diffusion and combustion of a gasinjected into a high-speed uniform stream bymeans of a wall slot are considered .  the dorodnitzinhowarthtransformation is employed toreduce the boundary layer equations toincompressible form,. the nonsimilar flow field istreated by a modified oseen approximation inconjunction with the integral method .  thermalboundary conditions corresponding to an adiabaticwall and to constant wall enthalpy are discussed.  the injection of homogeneous, heterogeneous,nonreactive, and reactive gases istreated .  for the latter case, the models usuallyemployed for chemical behavior, namely,frozen and equilibrium flow, are considered .  theanalysis is applicable to a wide variety oflaminar flows, e.g., those involving cooling, thermalprotection, skin-friction reduction, andsupersonic deflagration .  a numerical example ofpractical interest in connection with theventing of gaseous hydrogen boiloff from a rocketbooster is presented .
  this paper presents a study of the steady twodimensionalmagnetohydrodynamic flow of aninfinitely conducting fluid past a nonconductingwedge with nonaligned flow and magneticfield .  the flows considered are in the /superfast/or fully hyperbolic regime .  the flows consistof several regions of uniformity connected byshocks and expansion waves .  because of theboundary condition on the magnetic field, themagnetic field must be the same in the regionsabove and below the wedge,. thus the flows in theseregions are coupled, unlike in the case of ordinarysupersonic gasdynamics .  only small wedgeangles and weak waves (characteristics) areconsidered .  the problem thus is linearized, andexplicit solutions are obtained which arequalitatively similar to the nonlinear solutions .some interesting and unexpected featuresarise, and they are discussed in detail .
this paper presents an approximate solution for two-dimensional,incompressible, laminar boundary layer flow with arbitrary pressuregradient . von mises' form of the boundary layer equation is linearizedby making a change in the coefficient of one of the terms .  the linearizedequation yields a solution that is accurate for the outer portionof the flow but inaccurate near the surface .  a separate inner solutionthen is developed which is accurate at the surface and which joins withthe outer solution at some point within the boundary layer .  themethod may be considered a major modification of one developed earlierby von karman and millikan, with changes in both outer and inner solutions,and the point at which the two solutions are joined .  the changesimprove the accuracy of the method and in some respects simplify thecalculations .  as examples, results are presented for flow with alinear variation of velocity (including flat plate and stagnationpoint flow as special cases), flow with sinusoidal variation ofvelocity, flow past a circular cylinder (heimenz' velocitydistribution), and flow past an ellipse (schubauer's data) . agreementwith theoretically exact solutions is good, and better thanresults obtained using the pohlhausen method .
  the usual procedure in calculating the coolingprocess in a wake behind a blunt object is toassume a region of pure expansion up to a distancewhere the pressure has reached its ambientvalue, followed by a region where the mechanismof pure heat conduction is operative .  inthe present paper both mechanisms are assumedto be valid simultaneously, and the result iscompared with previous calculations .  thefollowing criterion is established ..  the minimumradius of a hemisphere-cylinder configuration,above which a simultaneous conductionexpansioncalculation is not needed, is given bythe approximationwhere is the nondimensional valueof the enthalpy at the axis of the wake belowwhich the two methods of computation give thesame result, and m is the flight mach number .
  three-dimensionality in wakelike or jetlikefree mixing may stem from initial geometricconfigurations, nonuniformities in flow variablesover a cross section, or boundary conditionsalong the flow .  these may be generated bybodies at angle of attack, nonaxisymmetricbodies, mixing of nonaxisymmetric jets withan outer flow, finite wings, or more artificialmeans .  this paper is devoted to studies bearingon such configurations .  the first sectiondeals with the general mathematical model, inwhich the boundary layer approximationsare used, and with methods of solution .laminar and turbulent flow, compressibility, unsteadiness,and streamwise pressure gradientsare admitted initially .  the flux forms of theequations are given .  algebraic integrals of theenergy equations and the diffusion (frozenflow)equations are obtained .  a simplificationof the convective terms, roughly correspondingto the oseen approximation, is usedin the asymptotic downstream region .the second section contains explicit solutionsfor specific configurations, in particularfor flows whose initial isovels are of elliptic shape .these flows may be wakelike or jetlike .compressibility is admitted,. however, the flowsmust have uniform pressure and must besteady .  the final section deals with interpretationand evaluation of the results .
  an integral method previously used successfullyin several kinds of boundary layer problemshas been extended to treat simultaneous heat andmass transfer in a binary-mixture laminarboundary layer when the pressure is uniform .the principal results are two pairs of dual integralrelations arising from solutions to theintegral concentration and energy equations .one pair connects the surface mass transfer rateand surface concentration of injected gas,. theother relates surface temperature and heat transferrate in the presence of mass transfer .only the cases of helium and air injection into anundissociated air stream are discussed indetail, but the method can be applied to problemsinvolving other gases .  the approximateresults agree quite well with some numerical solutionsand with recent experimental resultsfor which no numerical solutions are available .
  an approximate system of equations is derived todescribe the inviscid flow past a flat slenderwing at angle of attack, in the limit and .the aspect ratio is required toapproach zero at the same rate as the mach angle inthe flow behind the shock wave .  only asingle parameter appears in the resulting equations,and a similarity law therefore can bewritten expressing a correction to the newtoniannormal-force coefficient .  for the delta wing,a correlation of experimental data according to thesimilarity law is shown, and the first termsof the solution are derived under the assumptionthat the similarity parameter is small (vertexangle much smaller than mach angle) .
the flow in overexpanded supersonic nozzles is reviewed . although fiveessentially different flow regimes can be discerned, depending on thenozzle pressure ratio, the regime of most interest to the engine designeris the one characterized by oblique shock patterns in the nozzleand flow separation from the nozzle wall . it is shown that the pressure rise associated with the separation correlates well with the mach numberat the separation point . a simple analytical formulation for thepressure rise required to separate the flow provides excellent agreement with experimental data over a wide range of nozzle operating conditions and allows prediction of overexpanded nozzle performance .
  yawed-cone working charts and an engineeringmethod are presented and used to calculatelift-drag ratios of flat-top conical wing-bodyarrangements at mach numbers from 5 to 20 .viscous interaction effects are considered, butbluntness effects are neglected .  correlationsof wind-tunnel data in the rangeshow that boundary layer displacementcorrections to surface pressure and skinfriction are required to calculate lift-drag ratiosby this method wheneveris greater than 0.2 .  is the freestream mach numberand is the freestream reynoldsnumber based on body length .  double- and singletypeshock patterns, transition from onepattern to the other, and the variation of inner-shockposition with angle of attack are described .lift-drag ratios are calculated at selected flightdesign points for flat-top, conical bodyarrangements with triangular and hyperbolic wingplanforms .  the hyperbolic wing arrangementoffers a potential l d benefit at mach 5 butnot at mach 10 or above .
  an exact numerical solution is obtained forthe chemically reacting flow past a wedge .  thefreestream is either in equilibrium or out ofequilibrium but nonreacting .  the attachedshock wave is shown to be either concave, convex,or straight, depending on the values of theamount of dissociation in the freestream anda parameter describing the amount of energycontained in the freestream relative to the gasdissociation energy .  numerical examples arepresented illustrating these regimes .  the flowfield is characterized by the presence of an entropylayer and a relaxation layer, both easilyidentifiable in the presentation of the numericalresults .
  the state of a gas near a solid surface is investigated .it is assumed that at a sufficientlylarge distance from the surface the particle distributionfunction is of the chapman-enskogform .  the half-range analysis previously employed forparallel plate geometrics (symmetricproblems) can be adapted to the single-plate problem .although the mathematical analysisdiffers, the slip coefficients are essentially identicalwith those obtained from the parallelplate problem (e.g., couette flow) .  detailed calculationsare presented for both hard sphereand maxwellian molecules .  the recent work ofbakanov and deryagin for hard spheremolecules, which is based on incorrect approximations, is discussed .
  measurements of the local heat flux to hemispherecylindermodels in a supersonic rarefiedair stream are presented .  two different steady-statemethods were developed, and five individualmodels were used .  data were obtainedthroughout the mach number range of 2 to 6,with reynolds numbers (based on conditionsbehind the bow shock and model diameter) varyingfrom 38 to 1730 .  the stagnation point dataindicated a gradual increase from continuumboundary layer theory at the higher reynoldsnumbers to about 10 above at the lower endof the range investigated .  pressure distributionmeasurements on cooled and uncooled modelswere found to agree well with modified newtoniantheory .  local recovery factor measurementsshowed a small rarefaction effect at thelowest reynolds numbers .
  an integral method for calculating the three-dimensionalboundary layer over the surface ofa cone at angle of attack is investigated .the numerical procedure of integration for thatmethod on the basis of a simplifying assumptionconcerning the boundary layer developmentalong the cone generator is developed and illustratedby applying the method to find the solutionsof integral equations for a specific example .the results obtained for the example for therange of circumferential angle of 40 investigatedare summarized and given as heat transfercoefficients, coefficients of friction, and otherfriction parameters .  the distribution of heattransfer coefficients checked with availableexperimental data fairly well .
  a special case of cavitating flow solutions ispostulated and transformed to a semi-infiniteplane .  the complete, exact solution then issynthesized by superposition of singularities .the solution is relevant to a general, two-parameterfamily of curvilinear bodies .  the parametersare the flow angles at the two points of flowseparation .  the body reduces, in the specialcase, to the rayleigh solution for a flat plate .the equations of the cavity boundaries aregiven in explicit form .  the body form and thestagnation streamline are given as the locus ofthe roots of a cubic equation .  local staticpressures and, hence, lift and drag, also may becalculated .  the generated solutions constitutea technique involving simple computationfor exact solutions of a special family of cavitatingcurvilinear bodies at finite angles of attack .
  the steady flow of a perfectly conductingmagnetohydrodynamic fluid past a thin nonconductingairfoil is studied with the usual modelin which the fluid variables obey the lundquistequations linearized about a constant unperturbedflow .  /hyperliptic/ flows, in which hyperbolicand elliptic fields are superimposed,are considered .  results of grad, mccune andresler, and sears and resler are extended andconsidered in detail for the case of an arbitrarilyinclined unperturbed field .  the general solutioncontains four line singularities along thecharacteristics through the ends of the body andhas two arbitrary constants .  by a /generalizedkutta-joukowski condition,/ these constantsare fixed so that two of the line singularitiesdisappear .  specifically, it is required that thesolution be locally square integrable .  behaviorof the exponents of the singularities is investigatedby numerical computation and, in limitingcases, analytically .  the singular parts of some flowsare investigated numerically .
  experiments on the interaction of transverselyimpinging two-dimensional jet flows wereperformed in which a low pressure control jetflow interacted with a relatively high pressurepower jet flow .  the ratio of the control jet tothe power jet supply chamber gauge stagnationpressure was adjusted at 0, 10, and 15 .shadowgraphs of the power jet alone, as well as thecorresponding interacting jet flows, wererecorded to establish the nature of and changes inthe shock structure .  the jet flows weretraversed by a pitot tube to record the pitot pressuredistributions at various locations downstreamof the power jet exit .  it was discovered thatwith the addition of only a small percentcontrol jet flow, the normal shock front of the highlyunderexpanded power jet flow changed toan oblique shock structure and, downstream of theprevious location of the normal shock whichappeared in the power jet flow alone, the maximumrecovery stagnation pressures wereproportionally much higher .  the mechanism forthis behavior of the normal shock is proposed .possible practical importance of this behaviorof interacting jet flows with reference to aerodynamicnoise, supersonic diffuser losses, etc., isalso pointed out .  for the power jet flow alone itwas found that by considering the actual jetboundaries as simply an extension of the actualnozzle, the average axial flow quantities, computedfrom the area-mach number relation usingthe observed cross-sectional area of the jetflow, agreed quite favorably with the experimental results .
  experimental data are presented on the growthof turbulent wakes up to 8000 calibers behindand spheres traveling at supersonicvelocities .  experimental determinationof the exponential coefficient in the growth law isvery difficult, if not impossible .  data arepresented in the form of both .in the representation, two regionsof different wake growths are observed .by means of a quasi-steady state assumption,the effect of drag deceleration is eliminatedand growth of the far wake compared with theoreticalpredictions .  the agreement with thelees-hromas theory in this region was found tobe quite good .
  the present paper derives generalized aerodynamicforces for slender supersonic aircraft onthe basis of slender-body theory .  particularconsideration is given to configurations whichare spanwise flexible .  to treat configurationswith flexible wings and bodies, the slender wingbodyproblem is first reduced to a simple bodyproblem whose solution is well known, and asolution of the latter is obtained, utilizing thecircle theorem or method of images and a knownsolution of the airfoil equation for a doubleinterval .  with this approach, it is not necessaryto apply conformal mapping techniques,and the solution so obtained is valid for arbitraryspanwise downwash distributions .  on thebasis of slender-body theory, the velocity potentialand, subsequently, the generalized aerodynamicforces are derived for a general class ofspanwise flexible wing-body configurations .
  the present paper is mainly concerned withthe hypersonic flow over a flat plate with ablunt nose .  the analysis is based on the flowmodel in which the flow field behind the shockwave may be divided into two regions ..  theinviscid-hypersonic-flow region and the entropylayer, across which the pressure has no appreciablechange .  the equations for the entropylayer can be reduced to those of the usualboundary-layer problem with the exception thatthe outer edge of the entropy layer, as wellas the pressure remain unknown .  these unknownsare determined so as to approximatelymatch the entropy-layer solution with the inviscidhypersonic solution in which the shockwave has the shape of the power law of thedistance from the leading edge .  the assumedflow model is shown to be valid over a restrictedrange depending on the wall-to-stagnationtemperature ratio and (where isthe reynolds number based on half the thicknessof nose t, m the freestream mach number,and c the chapman-rubesin constant .actual calculations have been carried out for thecase with typical values of andthe wall-to-stagnation temperature ratio .the calculated values for both the surfacepressure and heat-transfer rate are comparedwith the experimental data .  as regards surfacepressure in particular, a satisfactory agreementwith the data is obtained .  the validityof the assumptions upon which the presentanalysis is based has been examined from thenumerical results, and the region of the validityhas been found to extend over a certain large rangeof the nondimensional distance from theleading edge .
  the phenomena arising from the uniform injection of helium,air, argon, and iodine into the laminar boundary layer of a supersonicstream of air in a tube were investigated theoretically .the partial differential equations describing the energy, mass,and momentum transfers through the boundary layer were obtained,and a series solution was found for the case of uniforminjection through the tube wall .  the results of the analysis arein the form of axial distributions of wall temperature and recoveryfactor and of radial distribution of concentration, velocity,static, and stagnation temperatures .  the gas mixturewas assumed to be a perfect gas .  properties of the mixture werecalculated in accordance with the gibbs-dalton rule and themixing rules based on the kinetic theory of dilute gases .  transportproperties for pure air were taken from the n.b.s. tabulations.  transport properties for the other gases were calculatedby kinetic-theory methods, employing a lennard-jones 6-12model for the interaction potential .  the theoretical predictionsfor the recovery factor along the tube with air or argon injectionagree with experimental data to within one percent .  thetheoretical predictions for helium injection indicate an 8-percentrise in the recovery factor along the tube, while experimentshave shown only a 1-percent rise .  these differences betweentheory and experiment are attributed to inaccuracies in the approximationsto the transport properties of the binary mixtures .
  this paper presents a theoretical analysis of the hypersonicviscous flow over a sweat-cooled flat plate .  the physical systemunder consideration is the hypersonic laminar boundarylayer over a porous flat plate with homogeneous, normal injectionof a coolant into the external stream .  a heat balance atthe porous surface is made between the heat transferred to thesurface and the heat absorbed by the coolant .  the existenceof similar solutions requires a nonuniform distribution of coolantinjection .  the method of solution consists of the integration ofthree simultaneous first-order equations, the momentum and theenergy integral equations in the boundary layer, and the tangentwedgeapproximation in the inviscid layer .  first-order asymptoticformulas are given in both the strong and the weak pressureinteraction regions for the induced surface pressure, the skinfrictioncoefficient, and the nusselt number .  numerical resultsfor three specific cases are presented and discussed .
  the problem of minimizing the drag of a slender, two-dimensionalor axisymmetric body in hypersonic flow at zero angle ofattack is considered under the assumption that the pressure coefficientlaw is newton's impact law as modified by busemann inorder to include centripetal acceleration effects .  after the conditionthat the pressure coefficient be nonnegative is accountedfor and after arbitrary conditions are imposed on, in additionto the thickness and the length, the enclosed area and the momentof inertia of the contour in the two-dimensional case and thewetted area and the volume in the axisymmetric case, the minimalproblem is formulated as a problem of the mayer type andsolved by the combined use of the euler-lagrange equations,the transversality condition, the erdmann-weierstrass cornercondition, and the properties of the switching function .  particular attention is devoted to the class of problems suchthat, among the four quantities being considered, two are prescribedwhile the remaining are free .  for these problems, theextremal arc is composed of two subarcs ..  one is characterized bya positive pressure coefficient and is called the regular shape,. theother is characterized by a zero pressure coefficient and is calledthe free layer .  in this connection, the analysis shows the existenceof two different types of solutions depending on whether thethickness is given or free .  if the thickness is given, the expression for the regular shape isa power law, and the transition from the regular shape to the freelayer occurs in the second half of the body .  in the two-dimensionalcase, the exponent of the power law is 1 if the length is givenif the enclosed area is given, and 3 if the moment of inertiaof the contour is given,. the transition point from the powerbody to the free layer is located at 50 percent of the length if thelength is given, at 66 percent if the enclosed area is given, and atthe axisymmetric case, the exponent of the power law is ifthe length is given, 1 if the wetted area is given, and if thevolume is given,. the transition point from the power body to thefree layer is located at 60 percent of the length if the length isgiven, at 70 percent if the wetted area is given, and at 80 percentif the volume is given .  on the other hand, for problems where the thickness is free,the equation governing the regular shape is not that of a powerbody, and the point of transition to the free layer is located in thefirst half of the body .  in the two-dimensional case, the transitionpoint is at 28 percent of the length if the length and the enclosedarea are given, at 32 percent if the length and the momentof inertia of the contour are given, and at 45 percent if the enclosedarea and the moment of inertia of the contour are given .in the axisymmetric case, the transition point is located at 35percent of the length if the length and the wetted area are given,at 39 percent if the length and the volume are given, and at 46percent if the wetted area and the volume are given .  for all of the cases considered, analytical expressions are obtainedfor the optimum shapes, the thickness ratios, and the dragcoefficients .
  considered is the second-order supersonic flow over a cruciformconfiguration consisting of two intersecting rectangularwings of high aspect ratio .  the practical interest is in applicationto supersonic inlets, wing-body junctions and vehicle fins .the fundamental interest centers about identification and adjustmentof the severe local failures of the ordinary second-ordertheory .  for wings with discontinuous slopes, discontinuouspotentials occur across the planar shock and square-root singularitiesin the velocities occur at the intersection of these shockswith the cruciform surfaces .  the problem is simple enough sothat these interesting features stand out clearly .  a second-order solution uniformly valid to first order is constructedby adjustment of the ordinary second-order solution obtainedfirst .  the uniformly valid solution has two differentseries representations in the thickness parameter .  one is theordinary second-order series in ascending integral powers of thethickness parameter which is valid in the interior of the vertexcenteredundisturbed mach cone, and the other is a series containingfractional powers which is valid adjacent to and upstreamof this mach cone .  the uniformly valid solution gives the detailedwave structure and shows a flow regime upstream of thevertex-centered undisturbed mach cone not predicted by theordinary theory .  the two solutions are otherwise identical .the wave structure consists of a pyramidal arrangement of planarshocks adjacent to and upstream of the above cone, followed byweaker oblique expansion fans and finally by two extremelyweak shocks coincident with the vertex-centered undisturbedmach cone .  as an example of the above, detailed results arepresented for the case of two intersecting wedges .  applicationof the techniques to other quasi-cylindrical problems is discussed .
  an initially uniform magnetohydrodynamic shock wave ofarbitrary strength propagates through a channel which consists oftwo portions of which one has uniform cross-sectional area whilethe other is of varying cross-sectional area .  it is assumed thatthe flow in the nonuniform section in front of the shock is initiallya uniform state and no perturbations (due to the area variations)of this flow reach the shock until the area variation is encountered .when the shock enters the nonuniform section, it is perturbed,the shock strength altered and the subsequent flow is nonisentropic.  in addition to the perturbation due to the effect of thearea variations on the initially uniform upstream flow, there aretwo further contributions--viz., a permanent perturbationcaused directly by the area changes and a transient disturbance-whichpropagates with true sonic speed with respect to the flowbehind the shock, due to reflections of the permanent perturbationat the shock .  expressions for these various contributions areobtained .  the results presented include as special cases propagationof a nonuniform conventional gas dynamic shock into amoving nonconduction fluid and propagation of a nonuniformhydromagnetic shock wave into a stationary fluid .
  inverted hemispheres, circular discs (normal to stream),spheres, 26 total angle 0.368 blunt hemisphere cones, 18 totalanglesharp cones, and other axisymmetric shapes were run in ahypervelocity wind tunnel .  hypersonic drag coefficients at zeroangle of attack were measured in the air velocity range, 7,000efficientis defined as drag force .  knudsen number is definedas mean free path behind shock sphere shock detachmentdistance .  in the case of nonsphere shapes, the knudsennumber is defined as the knudsen number of a sphere with thesame base diameter .  these drag coefficients cover the range of gasdynamics to freemolecule flow and are given in graphical form .  the drag coefficientswere measured by means of a ballistic balance in millisecondintervals, and referenced to the drag coefficient of asphere in the gasdynamics region, for a gamma of 1.4, of 0.92 .  tunnel stagnation conditions of pressure, temperature, density,and pressure drop with time were measured directly .  in thetunnel test section, velocity, q density, total pressure, and staticpressure were measured directly .  these experimental curves have been found useful in the analysisof complex shapes if the complex shapes can be easily brokendown into simple components with small interactions betweencomponents .  heat-transfer distributions have also been obtained on theseand other complex shapes in the hypervelocity wind tunnel, bymeans of a special paint which changes through several visiblespectral orders within a heat transfer range of x10 for a singleapplication .  heat transfer rates, so obtained, have been performedin the hypersonic gasdynamic and slip flow regions andare presented for spheres .  these data, in the vorticity interactionregion, agree with the data of ferri and zakkay .
  an experimental investigation of the effects of cooling onboundary-layer transition on a 9-in. diameter hemisphere insimulated hypersonic flow is reported .  the newtonian pressuredistribution was obtained by use of a shroud and boundary layercooling was achieved by internally cooling the model .  transitionwas detected with hot wires and with a pitot tube at the surface .attained .  transition was observed in the subsonic and near-sonic flowregion at and upstream of n = 45 .  in this region the stagnationreynolds number at which transition occurred when the surfacewas highly polished was only slightly affected by cooling withinthe temperature range .  thus, transition reversaldoes not occur on a polished spherical surface within therange of these tests, and we therefore conclude that the coolingdid not cause the linear stability of boundary layer to decreasesignificantly .  an essential feature of transition studies with boundary-layercooling is the close control of surface roughness .  in the presentexperiments this control required, in addition to a highly polishedsurface, the necessity for low water vapor dewpoint, the avoidanceof carbon dioxide condensation and the utilzation of everyavailable means for removing the dust from the airstream .
  features of the surfaces of main disturbance created by a smallobject in steady motion through a conducting fluid are examined .these surfaces are found by drawing tangent cones from theobject to the relevant wave-front diagrams .  the outer wavecone (when present) is smooth, but the two inner cones havecross sections similar to the cusped figures of the inner wavefrontdiagram .  it is conjectured that the disturbance may beconcentrated along such line cusps .  this has particular relevancein the application of known two-dimensional results tothree-dimensional problems, say in the well-known techniquesof aerodynamics .  in mhd the omission of the large disturbancecharacteristics implicit in a two-dimensional solution may invalidateits use in any practical three-dimensional problem .
  an analytical method is presented which permits a very rapidevaluation of the acrodynamic effects arising from the additionof small amounts of heat near supersonic two-dimensional airfoils.  this method applies to shockless inviscid flow without heatconduction .  also, the mechanism by which the sesired heataddition is achieved is not considered .  it is shown that even small amounts of heat generate a substantialpressure rise and thus cause appreciable changes in theacrodynamic coefficients .  the results of this analysis comparefavorably with those obtained by a more accurate, but also moretedious, graphical method of characteristics .  two possible modes of application to an airplane design areconsidered from the energy requirements standpoint .  in thisconnection, it is shown that the decrease of the required wingarea resulting from heat addition may, in some cases, lead tosavings in the rate of the fuel consumption .  in general, however,one should not expect any substantial reduction in energy requirementsresulting from the application of the wing heat addition.
  solutions are obtained in closed form for the pressures exertedon a rigid half plane by an incident, plane acoustic shock wave .the angle of incidence of the wave front is arbitrary and the halfplane is considered to be traveling at constant velocity, subsonicof supersonic with respect to the acoustic medium .  a closedformsolution is obtained also for a rigid wedge which is motionlesswith respect to the acoustic medium .  the analysis is carriedout by transforming the wave equation to laplace's equationby the busemann conical transformation and then applying conformalmapping .
  theoretical and experimental data relating to the downwashimpingement problem are examined in order to arrive at a coherentunderstanding of the process of entrainment of groundparticles in the flow .  it is demonstrated that a key mechanismin the process is the interaction of nonuniform flow in the groundboundary layer with bluff ground particles .  this interactionproduces a lift force which, under typical conditions, equals orexceeds the particle weight .  in the interest of quantitative prediction of the conditionsnecessary for particle entrainment, four subsidiary problem areasin the impinging jet are examined .  these are the viscous decay,the inviscid flow field, the ground boundary layer, and the forceson a bluff body in nonuniform flow .  applicable theories areused in conjunction with experimental data to assess the accuracyand range of validity of the theories, and to define the streamconditions which will cause particle entrainment .  available data are applied to the establishment of criteria forparticle entrainment in the vicinity of the impinging-jet stagnationpoint .  these criteria show that entrainment occurs in afinite annular region on the ground plane, and that the particlesmost readily entrained are those with a diameter equal to abouttwo-thirds the thickness of the ground boundary layer .  theconfiguration size is shown to influence the process in that theonset of entrainment is fixed by the jet diameter and velocity,and the size of the ground particles .  the criteria establishedprovide a quantitative estimate of the conditions causing entrainmentand provide a basis for scaling experimental results toa variety of full-scale situations .
  an exact linear theory for nonequilibrium flow past a thin airfoilis given .  green's function technique is used to solve theboundary value problem for the governing third order equation .upon satisfying the boundary condition on the airfoil surface anintegral equation is obtained which has an exact solution .  thefinal expression for the velocity potential, given as an integral overthe source strength times the green's function, shows that thesolution is dependent not only on the slope variation of the airfoilbut also on its curvature variation .  this turns out to be the casefor all free-stream mach numbers .  as an example, the supersonic flow past a wedge is considered .
  further experiments carried out in the 12-in. supersonic windtunnel of the jet propulsion laboratory of the california instituteof technology to investigate the effect of three-dimensionalroughness elements (spheres) on boundary-layer transition on athe local mach number for these tests was 2.71 .  the data showclearly that the minimum (effective) size of trip required to bringtransition to its lowest reynolds number varies as the one-fourthpower of the distance from the apex of the cone to the trip .  useof available data for other mach numbers indicates that themach-number influence for effective tripping is taken into accountby the simple expression .some remarks concerning the roughness variationfor transition on a blunt body are made .
  an experimental program was carried out in the 18-in. by 20in.supersonic wind tunnel of the jet propulsion laboratory todetermine the effect of uniformly distributed sand-grain roughnesson the skin-friction drag of a body of revolution for the caseof a turbulent boundary layer .  the mach number range coveredwas 1.98 to 4.54, and the reynolds number varied fromabout 3 x 10 to 8 x 10 .  some data were also obtained at amach number of 0.70 .  at speeds up to a mach number of 5 and for roughness sizessuch that the quadratic resistance law holds, the compressibilityeffect is indirect, and the skin-friction drag is a function of onlythe roughness reynolds number, exactly as in the incompressiblecase .  it is shown that the entire compressibility effectis a reduction of the fluid density at the surface as the machnumber increases .  the critical roughness, below which thesurface is hydraulically smooth, is,. this is equalto the thickness of the laminar sublayer for a smooth surface forboth compressible and incompressible flow .  over the range ofroughness sizes considered here, there appears to be no wave dragassociated with the drag due to roughness .  the shift in the turbulentveocity profile for a rough surface at supersonicspeeds is a function of only the roughness reynolds numberand quantitatively follows exactly the same law as thatfor the incompressible case .
  as part of a general study of the aerothermodynamic characteristicsof flight of hypersonic vehicles, an investigation of laminarheat transfer to slender yawed cones has been conducted .experiments have been made in the cal 11- by 15-in. shocktunnel at mach numbers from 11 to 13 and at yaw angles up towere tested .  the heat-transfer rates are compared with theoretical predictions.  the effects on the local heat-transfer rates of the boundary-layerdisplacement thickness, transverse curvature, yaw,nose bluntness, and the entropy sublayer are discussed .  it isshown that, at zero yaw, the experimental data for the sharpcone are in good agreement with theory when boundary-layerdisplacement and transverse-curvature effects are included .for the yawed sharp cone, the heat-transfer rates along themost windward streamline are in good agreement with reshotko'stheory for yaw angles up to 3 .  at larger yaw angles, the experimentalheat transfer was found to be greater than that predictedtheoretically .  however, at these yaw angles the heattransferdistribution on the windward side was in good agreementwith laminar-boundary-layer calculations based on anassumption of local similarity .  the zero-yaw tests of the bluntedcones showed qualitative agreement with cheng's shock-layertheory for slender blunt-nose bodies .
  the resistance of bodies in motion through an incompressibleviscous fluid is predictable from stokes- or oseen-type solutionsin the creeping-motion range, while some test information isavailable in the boundary-layer range .  with the exception ofexperimental results for spheres or circular cylinders and analyticaland experimental results for flat plates, almost no informationis available on other bodies, particularly in the intermediaterange of reynolds numbers extending from unity to a million .  experimental results as obtained from hydroballistic studiesin water and glycerin-water solutions are presented for finnedellipsoids of fineness-ratio .4 over a 20,000-fold range and arecorrelated with available information on other bodies .  althoughresults do not extend down to the creeping-motion region whereanalytical predictions are available, comparison with the dragcoefficient trends for spheres and flat plates indicates that an appropriatecurve for the ellipsoid could be extended so as to coverthe entire laminar-viscous range .  less extensive results are presentedon the drag of fineness-ratio 8 ellipsoids and on laminarturbulenttransition occurrences .
  it is found that for boundary conditions on the velocity slipand on the temperature jump which are not oversimplified in anunrealistic way, the effect of these phenomena on the heat transferand the shear at a stagnation point is of the order of the ratio ofthe mean free path outside the boundary layer to the boundarylayerthickness, even for highly cooled walls .  a simplifiedtheory of this effect is given, which puts the physical reasons forthe results in evidence and agrees closely with the more accuratecalculations .  it is concluded that the effects of slip and jumpare not negligible in comparison with other low-reynolds-numbercorrections, even for very cold walls .
  an analysis is made of the pressure distribution in the separated-flowregion ahead of a step, using the concept of the turbulentmixing coefficient of crocco and lees and the /jet-flow/model of chapman with some modification .  on the basis ofa variable mixing coefficient, a differential equation for the pressuredistribution is derived, which gives the pressure rise as afunction of the distance from the separation point .  this equationcontains the separation length as an unknown .  a secondequation is obtained by making a mass balance of the air enteringand, leaving the /dead-air/ region ahead of the step .  thepressure rise and the separation distance for a given mach numberare determined by solving the two equations simultaneously .  the analysis yields results which are in close agreement withthe experimental data on steps, obtained at princeton, particularlyfor m = 3.85 .  for lower mach numbers, a maximum variationof 5 percent is found between theory and experiment .use of the velocity profiles of jets, as required by the jet-flowmodel, necessarily restricts the applicability of the present studyto flows with thin boundary layers at the separation point .
  inequality constraints are introduced into the variationalformulation of the optimum re-entry problem for a lifting vehicleto prevent human and or structural tolerances from beingexceeded .  these constraints consist of minimum and maximumangle of attack, maximum load factor, and maximum convectiveheat transfer (equilibrium temperature) .  the equations have been programed for the ibm 704 computer,and sample trajectories are presented for which the totalheat transferred to certain critical areas on the windward surfaceof the vehicle is minimized .  these trajectories indicate thedominant effect of the constraints on the optimum flight path,which is shown to consist of both unconstrained and constrainedarcs .
  a series of semiballistic-type bodies consisting of three halfsphere cones of 0.3 bluntness ratio with half-cone angles of 8.6,laboratory hypersonic shock tunnel at m = 17.5 and 12.4 .in addition, a representative winged glide configuration consistingof a sharp-edged, 60 swept delta wing with cone-segmentthe range of angle of attack for the half sphere-cone tests was  the technique for force coefficient determination consists ofanalyzing high-speed motion pictures of the motion of very lightbalsa and isofoam plastic models which are literally free-flownfor several milliseconds in the test section of the shock tunnel .  because of viscous effects the newtonian prediction of halfsphere cone drag is consistently less than, but generally parallelthese bodies is generally well predicted by the newtonian theoryexcept at small and moderate positive angles of attack where it isgenerally less than newtonian .  this lift deficiency appears toincrease with cone half angle .  maximum lift-drag ratios fallconsiderably short of the newtonian predictions .  several exploratorytests at mach 11.7 and low reynolds number (approximatelyreduction in) on the 13 model produced anapproximate doubling of minimum drag and a 35 percent decreasein (l d) max,. this demonstrates the importance of viscouseffects for blunt bodies in the reynolds number range of thesetests .  the sharp leading-edge, 60 sweep delta wing-body configurationexhibited the same (l d) max, as the wing alone, about 2.80at both positive and negative angles of attack .
  a study of single-pass re-entry from escape speed and fromcircular satellite speed is made to determine the lift program for ahypersonic glider and the drag-modulation program for a nonliftingvehicle that minimize the heating of the vehicles withinacceleration or range constraints .  a new method of numericalsolution is used, similar to kelley's /method of gradients,/ thatpermits rapid convergence to the optimum lift program startingwith an original good estimate .  this method avoids the twopointboundary-value problem of the calculus-of-variationsformulation, and is applicable to any optimum-programingproblem .  an acceleration-tolerance limit is introduced whichdescribes the human pilot's capability to withstand accelerationmore accurately than a simple acceleration limit .
  results of an experimental investigation of instability leadingto transition in the subsonic boundary layer flow along a flatplate are presented .  a series of wings was placed outside theboundary layer to produce streamwise vortices, which in turnmade the boundary layer three-dimensional--i.e., periodic inthickness in the spanwise direction .  hot-wire measurementswere made to trace the downstream development of the disturbanceor wave created by the vibrating ribbon .  as the wavetravels downstream, it is deformed into a three-dimensional configurationby the three-dimensionality of the boundary-layerflow, but it is eventually damped out so long as it remains small inintensity .  it is only after the wave intensity exceeds a certainamount (which depends on the degree of boundary-layer threedimensionality)that the nonlinear effect manifests itself by therapid amplification of wave intensity, the rapid increase in wavethree-dimensionality, and the distortion in mean velocity profile .the appearance of nonlinear development inevitably leads to thebreakdown of laminar flow, and hence the onset of turbulence .there is present a mechanism by which the energy is transferredfrom one spanwise position to another so that the breakdown oflaminar flow occurs as a consequence of three-dimensional developmentof the wave as a whole .
  an approximate method of solution based on a minimum principleis presented for the steady laminar incompressible flow of anelectrically conducting fluid through a straight channel of arbitrarycross section with conducting or nonconducting walls in thepresence of a uniform transverse magnetic field .  the hall effectis taken into account by making simplifying assumptions that thegas is fully ionized and that both reynolds number and magneticreynolds number are small .  numerical calculations are carriedout for the case of a rectangular channel .
  the axisymmetric subsonic and supersonic flow fields, and theskin friction and heat transfer of an electrically conducting compressiblefluid flowing in a channel of constant circular areathrough a magnetic field are investigated when the magneticreynolds number is small .  the inviscid-flow field for flowthrough a dipole field is solved by the method of characteristicsin the supersonic case .  for the subsonic case, linearized equationsare derived for small values of the magnetic interactionparameter .  numerical results are obtained by the relaxationmethod .  the inviscid-flow-field solutions are used as boundary conditionsfor the laminar boundary layer along the wall, in whichaxial pressure gradients form an important feature .  the exactcontinuum-flow equations are reduced by an order-of-magnitudeanalysis to the boundary-layer equations, which are solved numericallyby an integral method using a fourth-degree velocityprofile and a fifth-degree stagnation-enthalpy profile .  pressure, temperature, and heat-transfer measurements aremade with a shock tube under supersonic-flow conditions closelyapproaching those used in the numerical computations .  generalagreement is found between the theoretical and the experimentalresults .
  the inviscid-incompressible-flow theory of static two-dimensionalsolid jets impinging orthogonally on the ground is presentedusing conformal mapping methods .  it is shown that the thrust of a solid jet at constant powerinitially decreases as the ground is approached .  the magnitudeof the thrust out of ground effect is regained only at a verylow height-to-jet width ratio (approximately 0.55) .  the maximuindecrease is about 6 percent .  the ground effect on solidjets is thus largely unfavorable .
  detailed analysis of the subsonic and transonic portious of theflow field about either very blunt or asymmetric configurationsrequires successive approximations,. these can be carried out in asystematic fashion only when an appropriate convergent perturbationprocedure is available .  the problem of producingsuccessively refined sets of initial conditions for either /direct/or /inverse/ analysis of the flow is formulated in the followingterms ..  given reasonable estimates for shock shape and pressuredistribution on the body, can one determine the flow fieldof interest to any desired degree of approximation by a perturbationapproach .qm  a procedure to this effect is developed which involves stretchingof coordinates in the spirit of the poincare-lighthill-kuoare transformed along body, shock, and intermediate lines so asto annul perturbations of the local resultant velocity,. (b) for theintegral method the coordinate along the boundary of each stripis shifted so as to control perturbations of the velocity componentthat determines the critical point .  the approach is justified by a study of the equations governingthe direct method, and by consideration of model transonic flowproblems for which closed form solutions are available .  therange of validity of the proposed procedure is assessed by practicalapplication and comparison with experiment,. results arepresented for a disk set normal to a low-termperature air streamat m = 4.76, and for a highly asymmetric two-dimensionalconfiguration at m = 8 .
tests were conducted at mach numbers from 2.0 to 3.5 to determinethe thickness and profile shape characteristics of turbulent boundarylayers on two-dimensional and axisymmetric curved-surface modelshaving adverse pressure gradients .  the magnitude of the gradientsrelative to the boundary-layer thickness at the beginning of thegradient was varied by employing models having different radii ofcurvature and by changing the boundary-layer thickness at the beginningof the gradient .  the overall pressure rise in most cases wasgreater than the value which would cause a turbulent boundary layerto separate if the pressure rise were created by an oblique shock wave .an analytical investigation was also conducted so that the results ofthe experimental investigation could be applied to the prediction ofcases outside the range of the experiments .it is shown that boundary-layer momentum thickness can be predictedfrom the von karman boundary-layer momentum equation, but that measuredvalues of boundary-layer profile shape are in poor agreement withvalues computed from procedures derived by extending conventionalmethods for predicting profile shape in subsonic flow .  a new procedurefor calculating boundary-layer profile shapes, developed in thispaper, is shown to provide a good correlation between experimentaland calculated values of boundary-layer profile shapes in adversepressure gradients created by curved surfaces .  this procedure is basedon the experimental observation that the station at which high-energyfree-stream flow actually mixes into a turbulent boundary layer inan adverse pressure gradient is well downstream of the station atwhich flow would have to mix in order to maintain a flat-plate profile .
  the reduction of heat transfer in the laminar boundary layerunder the condition of vaporizing ablation is analyzed for arbitrarymolecular weight of the vapor .  primary assumptions arethat the pressure gradient is zero, the individual components ofthe binary system are perfect gases, the prandtl number is constant,and the viscosity is proportional to temperature .  variationsthrough the boundary layer of the schmidt number forbinary diffusion and the density-viscosity product, are includedin the analysis .  the wall temperature is held constant .numerical results are obtained for prandtl numbers of 0.75 andvarying from 0.25 to 4.00, wall concentration of the foreign gasas high as 0.9 (corresponding to the high heat rates encounteredduring re-entry), and ratio of specific heats of foreign gas equalto that of air .  kinetic theory is used to obtain schmidt numberas a function of molecular weight and concentration .  the departure of schmidt number and prandtl number fromunity and the variation of reynolds analogy factor with prandtlnumber, blowing parameter, wall concentration, and molecularweight ratio are found to have relatively minor influence on theheat block ratio at high rates of ablation .  the primary factorgoverning the influence of molecular weight ratio on the heatblock ratio is the variation of across the boundary layer .little loss of accuracy is incurred, in the range of molecular weightratios considered here, by assuming schmidt and prandtl numbersof unity as long as the variation is properly taken into account .
  this paper is concerned with an experimental investigation ofthe effects of a longitudinal pressure gradient in a supersonicstream of air over a bounding surface on the performance of apreston or impact-pressure tube at the surface .  evidence is presentedwhich indicates that for the mach number considered andfor the range of pressure gradients covered, the preston tube functionsin a completely satisfactory manner for the determinationof local shear stress .
  a brief description of the flow field is given for the interactionof shock wave and laminar boundary layer on a compressioncorner in supersonic flow .  a special sub-case--that of leadingedgelaminar separation--is analyzed by extension of chapman'slaminar mixing-layer theory .  results are tabulated for rangesof mach number, and compression-corner angle .a limited region of possible leading-edge laminarseparation with an attached leading-edge shock (or in certaincases an expansion) followed by a second shock due to the reattachmentflow is found to exist .  comparison with existingexperimental data is found to be satisfactory in several cases .
  a series of tests were carried out in the princeton universityhelium hypersoule wind tunnel on blunt two-dimensional wingsat zero angle of attack with sweep angles up to 70 at machnumbers from 7 to 15 .  the leading edge reynolds number variedfrom 3,000 to 25,000 .  the measured pressure distributions werecompared with the simple summation of the theoretical inviscideffect (based on blast wave theory using the normal machnumber) added to the viscous effect (calculated as if no sweepwere present) .  for the unswept wing, the slope of the pressuredecay was reasonably well predicted by the theoretical calculations.  the viscous theory reasonably predicted the variation inthe pressure distribution due to changes in leading-edge reynoldsnumber .  by subtracting the theoretical viscous effects, aninviscid mach number dependence of the 2.2 power was foundas compared to the value of 2.0 predicted by the inviscid theory .the same approach for the swept wing did not give consistentlysatisfactory results .  deviations avove and below the calculatedvalue by as much as 40-50 percent were measured and thereseemed to be no systematic variation with either mach number orreynolds number .  at a constant high reynolds number, it wasfound that the pressure distribution varied with the distancealong the wing with an exponent between about--0.53 and--0.58except for a rather sharp decrease which occurred for the 70sweep case .  the pressure at a given station for a fixed machnumber and given leading edge thickness varied as the cosine ofthe sweep angle to the 1.1 power as compared to the 1.3 powerpredicted from general geometrical considerations .
  an experimental investigation on the expansion of high-temperature,high-pressure air to hypersonic flow mach numbers ina conical nozzle of a hypersonic shock tunnel has been carried out .the equilibrium temperature and pressure ranges after the reflectedshock wave were 1400 to 6000 k and 100 to 1000 psia .static-pressure measurements, which are sensitive to the stateof the gas, were made along the axis of the nozzle for differentreservoir conditions .  these results are compared with the calculatedequilibrium and /frozen/ data for the same geometryand initial reservoir conditions .  for reservoir pressures greater than 500 psia, the expansion ofthe air in the nozzle is essentially in equilibrium up to reservoirtemperatures of about 4,500 k .  for temperatures greater thanalmost frozen .  at a given area ratio for the nozzle and reservoirpressure, the expansion process remains in equilibrium up to acertain reservoir temperature, and beyond this temperature theflow expansion deviates rapidly from the equilibrium process andapproaches the frozen case .
  by applying hypersonic approximations to ferri's linearizedcharacteristics method, simple results were obtained for theshock shape and surface pressure distribution for an unyawedconical body of arbitrary cross section .  calculations werecarried out for an elliptic cone having a ratio of major to minoraxes of, and a semivertex angle of about 12 in the meridianplane containing the major axis .  an experimental investigationof the flow over this body conducted at a mach number of 5.8in the galcit hypersonic wind tunnel showed that the surfacepressure distribution at zero angle of attack agreed quite closelywith the theoretical prediction .  on the other hand, the simplenewtonian approximation predicts pressures that are too low .  surface pressure distributions and schlieren photographs ofthe shock shape were obtained at angles of attack up to 14 atzero yaw, and at angles of yaw up to 10 at zero pitch .  at thehigher angles of attack the newtonian approximation for thesurface pressures is quite accurate .
  a detailed analytic study is made of the curtain jet, the twodimensionalfluid wall used to contain support pressure on theunderside of ground effect machines .  two variations of the jetare studied in detail--the bifurcated jet, in which a portion of theflow streams into the support pressure region, and the deflectedjet, in which none of the flow penetrates into the support pressureregion .  kirchhoff-helmholtz free steamline analysis is usedto construct the flow field, and quantitative results are presentedfor the effect of nozzle inclination and detailed geometry on flowrequirements and support pressure differential at varyingaltitudes .
  the supersonic flow with assigned mach number gradient inthe span direction past a straight wing between two parallelwalls is studied using the small-disturbance theory .  the governingequation for the disturbance pressure on the airfoil, togetherwith the boundary conditions on the airfoil and at the walls, issolved by the method of separation of variables .  upon separationthe problem is reduced to a sturm-liouville eigenvalueproblem and to the solution of the telegraph equation .  as an application, a certain mach number profile is selectedand the resulting pressure distribution on a parabolic arc airfoilis computed .
  the method of belotserkovskii for calculating hypersonicflow fields past a circular cylinder is extended to deal with axiallysymmetricflow past sharp-cornered nose shapes, in particular,spherical segments and flat-headed cylinders .  results onspheres are also included .  in the present paper belotserkovskii'sfirst approximation is considered, and comparison of calculatedpressure distribution and shock shape with experimental resultsshows very good agreement .
  the purpose of this paper is to present a theory to account forsurface curvature effects on the two-dimensional boundary-layerflow which approaches a potential flow at free stream .  the problem of two-dimensional viscous flow is first formulatedby using the streamlines and their orthogonal trajectories as thegeneralized coordinates .  a boundary-layer approximation isapplied to the navier-stokes equations and the gauss equationin the generalized coordinates to yield the boundary-layer equations.  the conditions under which similar solutions of theboundary-layer equations exist are determined .  by a simpletransformation, the governing differential equation can be expressedin a form which reduces to the falkner-skan equationfor zero surface curvature .  numerical results for a similar solution which corresponds to aflow over a curved surface with zero surface pressure gradienthave been obtained .  the velocity profiles in the boundary layerand the wall skin-friction distribution for concave and convexsurfaces are presented .  the wall skin friction for a convex wallis found to be higher than the blasius value for a flat plate .  onthe other hand, for a concave wall, the skin friction will drop belowthe blasius value as the curvature increases, but it appears toreach a minimum, and beyond this minimum point it will increaseagain .  the same flow problem was treated by murphy by adifferent method of analysis .  comparison of murphy's resultswith those obtained by the present method reveals some basicdifferences in the boundary-layer characteristics .  in particular,murphy's results indicate that the wall skin friction for a convexsurface is smaller than the blasius value, while for a concave wallit is higher .
  similarity equations for axisymmetric compressible flow are obtained,assuming that the magnetic field is uniform, normal to thesurface, and unaffected by the flow, and that the conductivity variesas the nth power of the enthalpy .  numerical solutions aregiven for a number of values of n and of the field strength, and areused to modify the estimates of heat-transfer made by the authorusing inviscid theory (title source 26, 536-537, 1959) .
  the distributed injection of a foreign gas into a compressible,turbulent boundary layer in the absence of a pressure gradient isconsidered .  the analysis is performed within the framework ofthe binary-mixture concept, that is, the primary fluid flowingover the surface represents one component while the injectedspecies represents the second .  calculations have been performed for the injection of heliuminto undissociated air .  the results indicate an effect of machnumber on surface shear and energy transfer when distributedlight-gas injection normal to the surface exists .  a comparisonwith experimental data indicates reasonable agreement over arange of mach numbers .
  the hypersonic flow of an electrically conducting fluid aroundthe stagnation region of a sphere carrying a radial magnetic fieldis examined .  by assuming a newtonian pressure distribution and constantdensity, the differential equation of the inviscid flow is integratedand a simple closed-form solution is obtained .  it is found that the ratio of the stand-off distances of the shockwave for the magnetic and nonmagnetic cases does not depend explicitlyon the magnetic parameter s (ratio of the ponderomotiveforce to the free-stream inertia force) nor on the density ratio (thevalue at the free stream divided by the value behind the shockwave) but on the product s at least for values of betweenand .  the velocity gradient on the body is also calculated and theratio of the magnetic to the nonmagnetic case is shown to dependon the parameter .  the case of cylindrical shocks is also examined,. the samegeneral conclusions are drawn .
  an investigation is made of supersonic-aircraft configurationscomposed of a cambered body positioned a certain distancebeneath an arbitrary lifting wing .  the geometry of the wing isregarded as given and the geometry of the body may be given oroptimum .  expressions for the drag and lift are obtained fromreverse-flow considerations,. these greatly implement such astudy when interference cross flows must be cancelled .  thedrag advantage to be gained when a given body and wing assumea given orientation is studied .  treated more extensivelyis the variational problem of determining the optimum wingincidence and optimum body shape, for the given volume andlength, to yield the minimum drag for prescribed lift .  numericalresults are provided to indicate the significance of the largenumber of parameters appearing in the problem .  of these, thegap between the wing and the body is found to be particularlyimportant .  it is found that at low gap moderate body distortionshave a significant influence on the drag .  drag reductionsof up to 44 relative to the case of no interference have beenfound at a mach number of 2.24 in a configuration having agap approximately equal to the maximum diameter of the body,and a wing chord of about three eighths of the length of the body .comparison is made with the conventional wing-body combinationincluding the effects of skin friction, and it is concluded thatthe advantage suggested by the preceding considerations is notappreciably diminished .  finally, it is shown that the configurationsstudied lead to bodies of fineness ratios much lowerthan are appropriate to conventional wing-body combinations .  tests were made on an arrangement consisting of a scarshaackbody located under a lifting rectangular diamond-profilewing .  the mach number was 1.6 and the reynolds numberwas 9.17 x 10 based on the body length .  it was found that themeasured lift developed on the wing due to the flow field of thebody agrees very well with the theoretical value .  downstreamof the impinging shock from the wing, flow separation was observedon the exterior of the body but not in the interior .  theseparation is attributed not to the pressure rise across the shockbut to the pressure field arising from the reflection from thebody of the shock-induced cross flow .  further observationssuggest that the separation can be avoided by pitching the bodyor by kinking the body at the shock wave to accommodate theshock-induced cross flow .
  a new method is presented for predicting the boundary-layercharacteristics downstream of the porous region of an injectioncooledsurface .  the method consists of a general scheme forobtaining nonsimilar solutions of the compressible-laminarboundary-layerequations and is formulated along the followinglines .  the viscous domain is divided into n curvilinear strips .the governing equations are then integrated along the coordinatenormal to the body from the surface to the boundary of eachstrip .  as a result, one obtains a set of independent integrodifferentialrelations .  the integration is carried out by expressingthe integrands as polynomials, the coefficients of whichare functions of the unknown values of the velocity and temperatureon the strip boundaries as well as of the imposed boundarycondition at the wall and at the outer edge .  after theintegration is performed, a set of ordinary first-order differentialequations is obtained .  the set of equations may be solved forgiven initial conditions by a numerical integration scheme suchas the runge-kutta method .  several numerical examples ofinterest are presented .
  incompressible turbulent-boundary-layer analysis is extrapolatedanalytically to the case of a compressible turbulentboundary layer with ablation or mass injection at the surface .the effects of chemical reactions such as dissociation and recombinationas well as combustion are included .  the analysisapplies to blunt as well as sharp bodies which are either axisymmetricor two-dimensional .  when the turbulent lewis andprandtl numbers are unity, it is found that, as in the laminarcase, little detailed knowledge of the chemistry inside the boundarylayer is required in most instances .  the conditions at thesurface and the outer edge of the boundary layer are often sufficientfor prediction of heat and mass transfer .  comparison is made with experiments on the combustion ofgraphite under turbulent flow conditions .  prediction of ablationrates within about 30 percent accuracy is obtained when empiricalconstants obtained from incompressible velocity profileswith no mass injection are used .
as a stability criterion for infinitesimal disturbances in anincompressible, parallel but time-dependent basic flow, it is proposedto introduce the concept of /momentary stability,/ which is saidto prevail at the instant if the kinetic energy of the disturbances,as a fraction of the kinetic energy of the basic flow, tends to decrease.  the significance of such a criterion is briefly discussed .for special time-dependent basic flows which are described by similarvelocity profiles at all times (except for changes in amplitude),in the inviscid limit only a change of the time scale is needed toreduce the solution essentially to that for the steady case .  the disturbancesmay be of either the transverse-wave or the longitudinalvorticestype .  the result indicates a very strong destabilizinginfluence of deceleration, which is likely to overshadow that of the velocityprofile under normal circumstances .  the observations of falesrotating cylinders) are believed to be largely due to the deceleration .at finite reynolds numbers, the usual procedure of calculating thestability solution on the basis of the instantaneous profile is furthershown to be valid only for extremely slow acceleration or deceleration .even when the solution is acceptable, the condition for neutralstability may not be used without reservation .  to calculatemomentary stability properly, a procedure for a slowly varying but moregeneral profile is also described .
  the supersonic boom in steady, level flight of a wing-bodyconfiguration is due to the effects of body volume, wing volume,wing incidence or lift, and wing-body interference .  the contributionin the far field of each of these factors can, in any givenazimuthal plane, be represented as that of an equivalent bodyof revolution .  this concept is developed to investigate thepossibilities of using interference among the components of awing-body configuration to reduce or suppress the boom due tolift .  results of wind tunnel experiments are also presented anddiscussed in light of the theoretical indications .
  a new model is advanced for analyzing the broad-spectrumnoise of a turbulent jet .  the shear layer bounding the turbulentjet is assumed to play an important role in modifying the /quadrupolesound radiation/ from the interior .  to the sound-emittingsmall-scale turbulent eddies (with frequencies much higherthan those of large-scale eddies), the laminar shear layer has anirregular contour, as if the large-scale turbulent motions werefrozen .  the linearized analysis is then applied to the laminarshear layer to relate the acoustic oscillations across it .  the concept of geometrical acoustics is generalized to representthe passage of an acoustic ray through a laminar shear layer .acoustic rays may be traced across the shear layer as transmissionand refraction, but they may also be apparently /absorbed/or /generated/ by the laminar layer .  this /generation/ is visualizedas the schematic representation, within the framework ofgeometrical acoustics, of the action of the reynolds stress intransferring energy from the shearing mean flow to the acousticwaves .  such action of the reynolds stress can be neglected inordinary acoustics when the acoustic medium is not moving atspeeds comparable to the speed of sound in the medium .  however,this action is of crucial importance in the aerodynamic noiseof high-speed turbulent jets where the reynolds stress is the fundamentalelement of the radiating quadrupoles, according tolighthill .  those acoustic waves that become /stationary/ with respectto the local mean flow somewhere in the interior of the shear layerare significantly modified by the viscous action through thecritical layer .  the shear layer therefore serves as a selectiveamplifier of the acoustic waves passing through it .  kinematically,the shear layer brings about the preferred downstreamemission ..  dynamically, the shear-layer augmentation significantlyincreases the polar peak noise level .  the acoustic poweroutput per unit solid angle for such downstream emissions augmentedby the shear layer (including the polar peak) varies as,predicted by lighthill, but without lighthill's convectivecorrections .  on the other hand, the acoustic power output perunit solid angle nearly normal to the jet, due to the transmitteddownstream-propagating waves, varies roughly as .  heatingthe jet gas increases the shear-layer augmentation and may increasethe polar peak noise level by several db .  the silencingaction of the edge notches and edge teeth may also be interpretedas due apparently to the result of possible distortion ofthe shear-layer profiles .
  in this paper are discussed some of the general features of nonequilibriumflow .  in particular, vibrational relaxation is discussedin detail .  this case is somewhat simpler than dissociationand ionization but it illustrates some of the main new features ofnonequilibrium flow .  those aspects of two-dimensional andaxisymmetric flow behind shock waves are examined analyticallywhich yield significant information without requiring numericalsolution of the governing equations .  the thermodynamics of a vibrational relaxing gas are discussed.  the conditions for simulating flows are noted .  crocco'stheorem and the characteristic equations are derived .  then asimple method of obtaining the initial gradients of the flow variablesbehind a shock is shown .  these gradients are used in discussingtwo particular flows .  an exact solution for flow over acusped body is obtained .  flow over a wedge near the tip andfar from the tip is considered .  it is found that far from the tipa boundary-layer type phenomenon occurs .
  the method proposed in this paper is based on an approximatesolution of the integral equation which represents the potentialflow about a finite wing, with no restrictions beyond those necessaryfor linearization .  after assuming the usual series representationof the wing surface vorticity distribution, the solutionis achieved by approximating portions of the kernels of the transformedintegral equation by single and double fourier series andperforming termwise integrations analytically .  this is followedby the routine inversion of the aerodynamic influence coefficientmatrix, after satisfying appropriate boundary conditions atselected control points .  in this procedure the number of controlpoint used is limited only by the storage capacity of the computer.  control points may be located so as to cover the entirewing surface, with due regard to certain physical requirements,permitting the accurate representation of complicated meansurface shapes .  an evaluation of the proposed method is included .  comparisonswith other theoretical methods and electrical analogy tankresults are used to substantiate the accuracy of the proposedmethod when applied to plane wings .  a final evaluation involvesa comparison of calculated surface pressure distributionwith wind-tunnel measurements on a swept, tapered wing witha cambered and twisted mean surface .  the agreement evidencedin the latter comparison has the same order of overall accuracy assimilar comparisons on plane wing planforms .  in either case,the results given by the proposed method are within the accuracyrequirements for most aircraft design studies .
  the whitham theory predicting the far-flow field around aprojectile is used to derive body shapes which produce extremebow shock-wave pressure jump or /boom,/ subject to constrainingconditions regarding the drag due to the bow shock and finenessratio of the bodies .  it is found that the minimum dragbody is also the minimum boom body .  the body-volume effectand the effect of discontinuities in slope of the body meridiansection on the boom intensity is investigated .  as a general result of the investigation, it can be said that theboom of a projectile for given mach number and flight altitudeis primarily determined by its length and fineness ratio .  themaximum variation in the boom intensity for pointed bodieswith given length and fineness ratio is of the order of 10 per cent .the geometry of the bodies is thus found to play a minor role .
  the problem is considered of calculating approximately theinviscid rotational flow field and pressure distribution about asmooth two-dimensional airfoil with sharp leading and trailingedges in a uniform supersonic or hypersonic stream .  the assumptionof a perfect gas is made, and the basic flow pattern forthe analysis is taken to be given by the simple isentropic shockexpansionmethod with straight characteristics .  an elementarycharacteristics treatment is discussed to show when the simpleshock-expansion method should be satisfactory for computingthe surface pressure distribution, and under what circumstancesit may be expected to break down .  by utilizing characteristicvariables the isentropic shock-expansion method is then formulatedanalytically, and an analytic result is obtained for the shockshape corresponding to this zero-order approximation .  in thespecial case where hypersonic similitude is applicable, that is,for slender bodies and high mach numbers, the shock-shapeexpression for large distances is found to reduce to the resultpreviously given by mahony, which for weak shocks and slenderbodies in turn reduces to the simple-wave result first given byfriedrichs .  employing the analytic form of the isentropic shock-expansionmethod as a zero-order approximation, an analytically consistentperturbation method is developed by expanding the dependentflow variables in the exact partial differential equations in powersof the reflection coefficient for simple waves interacting with anoblique shock .  the scheme by its nature helps to define thoseregions in which shock expansion can be used, in addition totaking into account in a perturbation sense the factors neglectedin simple shock-expansion theory, namely, the curvature andreflection of the mach waves and the correct boundary conditionsat the shock wave .  analytic solutions are obtained forthe first-order corrections, including the surface pressure distribution.  the necessary numerical computation of the integralsinvolved is considerably simpler than a direct application of themethod of characteristics .  to illustrate the method and itsaccuracy, the zero-order shock shape and first-order pressure distributionare calculated for a family of parabolic arc airfoils atan infinite free-stream mach number .  these results are comparedwith rotational characteristic solutions where available,and the present method is found to be in excellent agreement .
  the flow of a dense plasma over a wavy conducting wall ofsmall amplitude is investigated where magnetic effects arenegligible .  these results are then used to analyze the flow overa thin conductor with cusped edges .  it is found that the coulombdrag vanishes identically, while the fluid-pressure dragcorresponds to the ackeret value for a neutral particle gas at thereduced-plasma mach number .
  a boundary-layer integral method analysis is set up for compressiblelaminar flow in a symmetric corner with varying angleand streamwise pressure gradient .  it represents an extensionand modification of the constant density analysis of loitsianskiiand bolshakov .  the analysis is applied to the case of constantpressure, constant corner angle, and isothermal surfaces, forwhich the crocco velocity-enthalpy relation holds .  althoughsimplifying assumptions limit the quantitative accuracy outsidethe 60 to 120 angle range, some qualitative trends are probablycorrect outside this range .  the limiting cases near 0and 180 are not considered .  favorable agreement between some results obtained by theintegral method and by other methods is demonstrated for theisothermal, constant-density case .  results show an increasingly sharp merger of the outermostisovels of streamwise velocity as the mach number increases .this sharp merging of the outer isovels is increased by increasingcorner angle and by insulation of heating of the surfaces .  withinthe interior of the viscous layer the spreading or contraction ofthe disturbed region of merging is influenced by surface heattransferconditions .  surface shear and heat flux are decreasedin the disturbed region, and are zero at the apex .  for casescorresponding roughly to the higher mach numbers of widercorner angles, the /specific momentum-area/ exhibits the samedecrease with mach number as its two-dimensional counterpart,whereas the /specific displacement-area,/ a measure of streamtubedilation, increases more rapidly with mach number thanthe comparable two-dimensional parameter .
  a study is made of the motion of an incompressible viscousfluid past a quarter-infinite plate, whose leading edge is perpendicularto and whose side edge is parallel to the undisturbeddirection of the stream .  it is assumed that the kinematic viscosityis small .  the first approximation is taken to be the undisturbedmotion, and successive approximations are obtainedby iferation .  the second approximation is the blasius shearlayer necessary to satisfy the boundary conditions on the plate .in turn, this layer leads to a velocity component normal to theplate which needs a potential solution, in which the velocitiesare 0, to match with the conditions at infinity .  further,the match at the edge of the blasius shear layer must be completedto 0 by introducing a secondary shear layer .  theregions near the leading and side edges are considered separately,.in particular, the neighborhood of the side edge needs specialcare, because the determination of the chief terms is complicatedby the presence of powers of log .  in particular it is shownthat the effect of the edge is to change the skin-friction coefficientby a factor
  the concurrent approach to chemical and vibrational equilibriumof a pure diatomic gas passing through a strong normalshock wave is investigated .  it is demonstrated that the equilibriumdegree of dissociation behind the shock front, and hence thedensity, for the case where the vibrational degrees of freedom arefrozen out can exceed the degree of dissociation, and hence thedensity, for the case where all degrees of freedom are in equilibrium.  thus the necessary condition for a maximum of thedensity between the shock front and the position of full equilibriumflow downstream of the shock front is established .  thesufficient condition that such a maximum be observable is shownto be that the approach to equilibrium of the vibrational degreesof freedom (or any other internal degrees of freedom) must lagthe approach to dissociation equilibrium by a significant amount,.that is, there must be at least an order of magnitude difference inthe respective relaxation times before such a maximum might beobserved .  an example calculation for a mach 13 strong shockwave in oxygen illustrates the appearance of such a maximum ofthe density and its dependency upon the relative values of thevibration and dissociation relaxation times .
  the present study investigates the hypersonic viscous flowpast blunt-nosed bodies with hydromagnetic interaction .  localsimilaritysolutions of flow field and temperature distribution arenear the stagnation-point region .  the discussions may begrouped into two parts ..  the two-dimensional problem (circularcylinder) and axisymmetric problem (sphere) .  numerical computations have been carried out for the sphereproblem for the /viscous-layer regime,/ with various magneticfield strengths and electrical conductivities .
  the position of the diffusion flame in a boundary layer withuniform mixture injection from a porous wall parallel to a uniformair stream is determined under the conditions of laminar, steadyflow with zero streamwise pressure gradient .  under the assumptionof fast forward reaction rate, solutions of the boundarylayer forms of the conservation laws of acrothermochemistry areobtained leading to a formula for the downstream velocity atthe flame in terms of composition and flow variables .  therates of change of conditions at the wall in the streamwisedirection are assumed to be relatively small .  methods oftreating complex reaction systems are described, and generalizedform of the reynolds analogy is developed .
  the flow about an electrically charged body traveling at highspeeds through the lower ionosphere is analyzed .  a simplegas model composed of electrons, ions, and neutral particles isused and the hydrodynamic description given is based on maxwell'stransfer equations for a mixture .  the conditions under which local statistical equilibrium canbe assumed are discussed, and different approaches to determinethe gasdynamic force in the subsonic, supersonic, and hypersoniccases are indicated .  the reciprocal action of the electric fieldof the flow on the body is also analyzed and a formula for theresultant electric force is given .  the total force on the bodyis equal to the sum of the gasdynamic force and the electric force .  the negative potential acquired by a plane body is alsocalculated .  finally, the lack of validity of debye's linearizationin this case and the solution of the exterior nonlinear problemwhich characterize the electric potential and the electron distributionare discussed .
  the fluctuating lift and drag acting on a circular cylinder in aflow of an incompressible fluid at large reynolds numbers weremeasured .  data on the root-mean-square values of the lift anddrag coefficients, the extreme values of these coefficients, andtheir power spectra at various reynolds numbers are presented .
  the applicability of the schlieren-photomultiplier technique toobtain quantitative density measurements in the laminar boundarylayer induced by a traveling shock wave in a shock tube isinvestigated .  tests were conducted at a mach number of 1.58so that the data could be compared with the exact theoreticalsolution tabulated by mirels .  the data obtained are in goodagreement with the theory if the distance of the light beam abovethe floor of the shock tube is adjusted to fit the theoretical curve,.this would not be necessary if a larger shock tube were used .values of the transition reynolds number were also determinedwhich are slightly less than those found by martin using an interferometer.  it is shown that this technique is sensitive enoughto detect changes in density that are only 0.000 per cent of atmosphericdensity .
  measurements of the heat transfer, recovery factor, andpressure distributions around a circular cylinder normal to asupersonic rarefied-air stream (total temperature 300 k.)are described for the mach number range of 1.3 to 5.7, thereynolds number range of 37 to 4,100 and at cylinder wallaverage temperature levels of 90 k. and 210 k .  study of theresults yielded ..  (1) a correlation equation for the stagnationpointnusselt number as a function of the reynolds number justafter the normal part of the detached bow shock wave,. and (2)fourier series expressions for the heat-transfer coefficient andpressure coefficient distributions in terms of the stagnation pointvalues .  in comparing these measurements with predictions based onrecent analytical studies, exceptionally good agreement for theheat-transfer coefficient distribution was obtained with lees'theory .  in the mach number range of 3.55 to 5.73 the pressuredecreased less rapidly with distance from the stagnation pointthan predicted by the modified newtonian theory .
  an analysis is made of the second-order effects of thickness onthe unsteady aerodynamic forces on a slender pointed body ofrevolution in supersonic flow .  the theory is restricted to harmonicoscillations for small angles of attack .  the solution is obtainedby approximating the nonlinear terms in the second-orderpotential equation by their first-order values and solving theresulting inhomogeneous partial differential equation, subject tomore refined boundary conditions .  the pressure equation islikewise refined and integrated to give the second-order correctionsto lift and pitching moment coefficients .  the analysis canbe considered as an extension of the second-order, slender bodytheory of lighthill to the case of unsteady flow .  the results indicate appreciable reductions in unsteady liftand damping moment coefficients when applied to slender cones .the present theory is estimated to be reliable provided thatis less than 0.7 .
  the linearized treatment of small time-dependent disturbancesof a laminar boundary layer, initiated by lighthill, is extended inseveral ways .  in particular, the high-frequency expansion iscontinued beyond the leading (stokes) term .  several interestingquestions of /joining/ occur, which are discussed but left unresolved.  in addition, a practical method for obtaining the responseto the laminar boundary layer to an impulsive change invelocity is presented .  the methods are applied to the case inwhich the basic steady flow belongs to the falkner and skanfamily of similarity solutions .
  a new method of calculating the behavior of turbulent boundarylayers in adverse pressure distributions is developed whichpermits direct determination of the velocity profile rather thanthe gross integral parameters normally used to infer the generalcharacter of the boundary layer .  the method offers the simplicityof algebraic equations coupled with the use of chartsrather than the laborious simultaneous solution of coupled differentialequations required by existing methods .  the method alsoary-layer thickness, thus allowing calculation of the absolute asaffords, for the first time, a means of determining the total boundwellas the nondimensional velocity distribution .  the velocity profile is considered to be composed of two regions--aninner region which is described by the law of the walland an outer region which is described by a function depictingthe deviation from that law .  the deviation function involvestwo parameters which are uniquely dependent upon the skinfrictioncoefficient and a third parameter which, for practicalpurposes, can be considered a constant .  since the entire velocitydistribution was found to be almost uniquely dependentupon the local skin friction, serious doubt is cast upon the generallyaccepted /history concept/ which considers the outer regionof the boundary layer to be dependent on integrated upstreamconditions .  agreement between experimental velocity distributions andthose calculated by the method presented here is generally verygood .  the analysis and calculation procedures which are presentedare applicable to two-dimensional, pseudo-two-dimensional,and axisymmetric conical flows .
  the method of linearized characteristics as applied by ferri tothe flow about elliptic cones can be used to determine the surfacepressure distribution, even when only linear terms are kept in theboundary conditions, provided an area rule requirement is satisfied.  in addition, the method can be applied for angles of attackprovided the elliptic body geometry is specified in a manner thatdoes not distort the cross section .  the surface pressure distributionobtained by this modified method is in reasonable agreementwith experiment over the range of mach numbers andsemidiameter ratios considered .  experimental results for severalconical bodies are presented .
  the problem of heat transfer from high-temperature airthrough a turbulent boundary layer to a cold surface is consideredboth analytically and experimentally .  heat-transferdata obtained in shock tubes are presented and correlated by asemiempirical theory which includes the effect of atomic diffusion .  the distinguishing characteristics of turbulent boundarylayers with dissociation and large cooling are considered .  it isshown that the equations governing such flow, after certainapproximations, can be represented in a form similar to the classicalequations for a turbulent boundary layer .  an approximate theory is proposed for turbulent heat transferfor a highly cooled boundary layer on portions of the body wherethe pressure gradient is negligible in the case of blunted bodiesof revolution in high-speed flight .  experimental results obtained on the cylindrical portion of ahemisphere-cylinder model are presented for conditions simulatingflight speeds to 21,350 ft. sec., where up to 30 per cent ofthe molecules are dissociated .  reynolds numbers of 2.5 x 10,based on local fluid properties external to the boundary layer,were achieved .  the larger values of reynolds number andflight speed were not obtained simultaneously, due to structurallimitations of the shock tubes,. however, the experiments wereconducted in such a way that the important effects of each couldbe determined .  in the experiments the mach number external to the boundarylayer varied between 1.7 and 2.2 .  the corresponding machnumber for blunted nonslender bodies in flight would have amaximum value between 2.5 and 4,. however, it is shown thatthese differences in mach number are not important for suchbodies .
  an experimental study is made of the wall boundary layer in ashock tube operated over a wide range of shock mach numbersand pressure levels in air, including those for which real-gas effectsexist .  transition distances are determined and correlated interms of the transition reynolds number based on a characteristiclength for this boundary layer .  data from independentshock-tube studies are also included in this correlation .  the results indicate a weak dependence of transition reynoldsnumber on shock strength up to moderate values of shock machnumber, followed by a larger stabilizing tendency .  comparisonof these data with transition data obtained in the same mannerin argon indicate that the increased cooling rates are largelyresponsible for the stabilization .  a dependence of transition reynolds number on the unitreynolds number is found at the lower shock strengths .  specifically,higher transition reynolds numbers are achieved atlarger unit reynolds numbers .  the phenomenon of transition reversal does not appear withinthe range of the experiments reported .  laminar- and turbulent-flow heat-transfer rates to the wallsof the shock tube are determined experimentally .  the resultsof the heat-transfer measurements substantiate existing theoriesin both the laminar- and turbulent-flow regimes .
  this paper is concerned with the thrust generated by a jetflap .  it is shown that a /linear/ thrust hypothesis can be obtained,provided linearized potential flow is assumed .  in fact,the linearized problem of a jet-flap system is found to be thelinear combination of a lift problem and a thrust problem .  thelift problem gives all the lift generated, but it is of interest to notethat the thrust problem would yield all the thrust developed bythe jet flap within the limitation of the linearized theory .  the mixing of the jet flap with the surrounding fluid is analyzedby the momentum-integral method .  the analysis substantiatesstratford's suggestion for obtaining an increase of thrust bycausing the jet to mix with the main stream in a region of highsuction .  finally, some approximate formulas, relating the thrustand the jet angle, are derived .  the drag of the airfoil section andother viscous effects are, however, not considered .
  a numerical method is developed for calculating the minimumthickness drag for a given wing planform and volume usinglinearized supersonic flow theory .  the corresponding optimumvolume distribution is also determined .  the results show thatconsiderable drag reduction is possible by improved volumedistribution .
  the inviscid rotational supersonic flow behind the shock waveattached to the sharp leading edge of an airfoil is studied by atransformation of coordinates which introduces the crocco streamfunction as an independent variable .  using expansions in the power series of, an iterative processis developed for the determination of pressure distribution alongthe airfoil surface .
  it is generally recognized that stable combustion processes inheated boundary layers may be achieved by either of two conceptualmechanisms .  in one mechanism it is pictured that the heattransfer to the wall quenches the propagating flame at a certaindistance from the surface .  the equality between the flow velocityand the normal burning velocity at this quenching distance determinesthe position of the propagating flame .  in the secondmechanism it is conceived that the hot surface provides a continuoussource of ignition in much the same manner that the hotrecirculation zone of a bluff body flame holder provides continuousignition to the gas flowing around it .  in this case it is the characteristictime during which the gas must be heated that determinesthe position of the flame .  all experimental work reported to date has been concerned withconditions where the first picture has apparently been applicable .in the present paper, experiment and analysis are given that showunder what conditions the continuous ignition mechanism providesthe appropriate model and also how the two models are related .to differentiate the two mechanisms an experiment was set up tostudy flame stabilization in high-velocity boundary layers over awall heated in the form of a step function .  with a turbulentboundary layer and a wall temperature above 1,700f., the characteristictime was found to be a systematic and reproduciblevariable .  these observations led to the conclusion that a continuousignition mechanism governs stabilization in heated turbulentboundary layers .  a rational explanation is made for thetransition from the low-speed mechanism known to be applicablein unheated turbulent boundary layers and heated laminar boundarylayers to the ignition mechanism applicable in heated turbulentboundary layers .  as a further verification of the continuous ignition mechanisman apparent ignition energy was found .  the logarithm of the heatadded at the lower stability limit was found to be a linear functionof the reciprocal of the limiting wall temperature .  the activationenergy derived from this arrhenius type of relation agreed reasonablywell with the estimated value for the fuel used .
  steady, stable, plain, and oblique detonation waves werecreated in a high-temperature, steady flow supersonic tunnel .ignition conditions and properties across the wave were measured.  the local-wave fluid-dynamic properties agree wellwith detonation theory .  experimental data are presented indetail and compared with other studies and theory .  experimentalbehavior of these detonations and their possible utilityare discussed .
  an approximation of the differential equation for compressibleduct flow is presented .  the equation is linear and of the secondorder .  the duct transfer function and response characteristicsare obtained by applying small-perturbation theory to the differentialequation .  the resulting equations describe ductnatural frequency as a function of duct areas and volumes, anddamping ratio as a function of the slope of the steady-state massflow, pressure-recovery curve .  the calcualted response agrees, to a first approximation, withmeasured response as obtained from tests of a fixed-geometry,sugar-scoop inlet model with hypass for matching airflows .  testingwas done in the 10 x 10 and 8 x 6 ft. supersonic tunnelsat nasa lewis flight propulsion laboratory .  further agreementwas obtained during flight tests of the f8u-3 airplane .
  a supersonic propeller with blades attached to an infinite cylinderas a hub is studied .  the forward speed may be subsonic, butthe relative speed at each section is supersonic .  the lightlyloaded blades are represented by a surface distribution of appropriate/modified/ sources in a fashion similar to ordinarysupersonic thin-wing theory .  these sources are found by approximatingthe exact potential for a constant-strength compressiblesource traveling along a helical path .  the usual relationshipbetween the source strength and boundary condition isfound,. and subsequently the source distribution is given, to theappropriate order, in terms of the blade geometry .  tip effects are considered by extending the theory of evvardand krasilshchikova .  the present investigation, however, isrestricted to those planforms for which no vortex sheet appearsoff the tip .  for points in the tip region, the potential is obtainedthrough the appropriate distribution of /modified/ sources in theupwash region off the tip .  by transforming to a curvilinear, nonorthogonalcoordinate system coincident with the modified machlines described by the infinities of the potential, an integral equationfor the required source distribution in the upwash region isderived .  without having to solve this equation, it is shown thatthe potential for a point in the tip region can be obtained in termsof an integration of known source distributions over the bladesurface only .  the case of a twisted flat plate of particular planform is treated,and a sample calculation is made of the pressure distribution atselected radial positions within the noncommunicating portionof the blade, as well as over the entire tip region .  though this analysis is carried out explicitly for the supersonicpropeller, it could also be extended to calculate various rotaryderivatives for highspeed flight vehicles .
  this investigation presents a derivation of the oscillatoryaerodynamic coefficients for wings with supersonic leading edgesfrom the second-order, nonlinear, unsteady, supersonic flow theoryof van dyke .  the theory is considered applicable throughoutthe supersonic-hypersonic regime at mach numbers normal tothe leading edge and reduced frequencies for which .the coefficients are modified for sweep, and a finite-span correctionis suggested to increase the accuracy of strip-theory flutteranalyses .  the limiting values of the coefficients in steady floware also discussed .
  this paper is concerned with the problem of the formation ofcouette flow--i.e., the problem of how the velocity profile varieswith the time tending asymptotically to that of the steady flow ofan electrically conducting viscous fluid in the presence of a magneticfield .  the governing equations and boundary conditionsare established and discussed .  the cases of both vanishing andnonvanishing mean induced electric field strengths are solved interms of complimentary error functions as well as some elementaryfunctions .  it is shown that the solutions are reducible tothat of the steady case as the time approaches infinity, and to thatof the nonmagnetic field as the hartmann number becomes zero .some numerical calculations are given .  the results indicatethat in the presence of a magnetic field the flow rate is reduceddepending on the magnitude of the hartmann number, and thatthe magnetic field /assists/ the flow to reach its steady condition.
a hypersonic shock tunnel has been developed to investigate the aerodynamiccharacteristics of flow over bodies at conditions comparable tothose encountered by ballistic missiles and satellites re-entering theatmosphere . some results for a shock velocity of over 50,000 ft. persec. in the shock tube portion of the facility are presented . staticpressure investigations were made in the nozzle to determine the flowcondition and the expansion process .the results of the investigation of representative blunt bodies athypersonic mach numbers and nozzle stagnation temperatures up toapproximately 6,000degreek. are presented . these include body pressuredistributions, shock-wave shapes, detachment distances, and photographsof the luminous gas region in the shock layer . it is seen that theshock detachment distance is smaller at higher stagnation temperaturesdue to the real gas effects . for the hemisphere the pressure distributionwas less than that predicted by the modified newtonian theory for all stagnation temperatures . for a 50degree cone-hemisphere the pressuredistribution and the shock detachment distance were appreciablyaffected by the real gas effects .the observed shock-wave shape and the approximate boundary layer on aflat plate are compared with the analytical prediction . some preliminaryresults for the detached shock wave produced by a blunt two-dimensionalbody in a low density flow at a mach number of 19.6 are presented
  an analysis is made of the unsteady laminar flow about arotating disc whose angular velocity may vary with time .the deviation of the actual instantaneous state of the flow fromthe quasi-steady state (instantaneous steady state) is determined.  from this, a simplified criterion, is derivedto define the conditions under which the flow can be consideredas quasi-steady for the purposes of shear stress andtorque computations .  since a turbulent flow responds morerapidly than a laminar flow, the quasi-steady criterion found hereshould also serve for the turbulent situation .
  the pressure distribution on a moving flat plate induced by anacoustic shock front striking the edge of the plate obliquely hasbeen found in terms of the two-dimensional solution of the authors
  the cancellation of a vortex by means of another concentricvortex of equal strength but opposite spin is investigated .  whensuch a cancellation occurs, there is a recovery of static pressure .the vortices are generated by means of two three-dimensionalairfoils cantilevered from the duct wall, one being situated in thewake of the other .  the airfoils have opposite effective angles ofattack and therefore have trailing vortices of opposite spin, asrequired .  it is demonstrated experimentally that there exists an optimumangle of attack for the second airfoil which cancels the vortexfrom the first airfoil and restores uniform flow downstream ofthe two airfoils .  a theoretical solution of this optimum angle ofattack is presented, and it is found to depend upon the angle ofattack of the first airfoil and upon the geometrical properties ofthe wings .  the pressure recovery accompanying the vortex cancellationis also studied .  theoretical considerations, based onthe model of a vortex filament in the center of a circular tubeshow that a maximum of 62 per cent of the static pressure dropacross the first airfoil can be recovered .  this maximum is imposed,irrespective of skin friction and separation losses, by theirreversibility associated with establishing a vortex field .  experimentalpressure recoveries of 50 per cent are realized .  perhaps the primary value of the present study is the opportunityit provides to verify certain of the fundamental conceptsof fluid mechanics which are brought into play when the trailingvortex system of a lifting wing is cancelled by a second wing .
  transition to turbulence was studied in a separated laminarboundary layer on a flat plate 24 in. long and thick .  stepswith a height of to were provided at a distance of 4 totransition was observed through a hot-wire anemometer .  theauthor concludes that transition was always initiated by tollmienschlichtingwaves .  two types of transition were observed .  in onetype, bursts suddenly appeared in the wavy flow .  the other typeconsists of amplification, distortion, and breaking up of the waves .which type of transition occurs depends on the value of the followingparameter ..  boundary-layer displacement thickness timesstep height times free-stream velocity squared divided by kinematicvelocity squared .  the burst type has been observed forvalues of this parameter larger than 4.2 x 10 .  the separatedlaminar boundary layer becomes unstable and develops waves whenthe critical reynolds  number based on boundary-layer displacementthickness at the step location exceeds a value of 350 .  someconclusions on the development of separation bubbles on air foilsare drawn from the present studies .
  a priori knowledge of the response of materials subjected to asevere aerothermal environment is essential in the space age .the successful design of space and re-entry vehicles demandsthat the fundamental problem of the interaction between a materialand dissociated air be properly formulated and solved .  inthis paper, the problem of sublimation in a hypersonic environmentis considered .  in this study of hypersonic ablation, the pertinent conservationequations are derived and the simultaneous processes ofdiffusion, convection, and thermal exchange are analyzed for thevaporization of a refractory material which is subjected to theenvironmental conditions encountered during hypersonic reentry.  for simplicity, only the forward stagnation point of an axiallysymmetric body is treated .  it is shown that the quantity,called the effective heat of vaporization, which includes all heatabsorbing or heat blocking effects, is an increasing function offlight speed, independent of body size, except where nonequilibriumvaporization effects or radiative effects appear .
  it has been shown by r. t. jones that, in order to produceminimum drag, the given lift must be distributed over the wingsurface in such a way that the sum of the downwash induced bythis distribution and the downwash induced in reversed flow isconstant over the wing surface .  this combined downwash can beexpressed by an integral which contains the load as a functionof the spanwise and chordwise coordinate .  the problem offinding the appropriate load distribution is thus reduced to theproblem of finding the solution of a rather cumbersome integralequation .  the severe spanwise singularity of the kernel function ishandled most easily, as in corresponding subsonic problems, by anapproximate integration over interpolation polynomials .  thechordwise load distribution is represented by a limited seriesdevelopment in legendre polynomials .  the sigularity of thekernel function along the mach lines through any pivotal pointcan be avoided by a similar legendre development of the combinedinduced downwash which is constant .  the integral equationis thus converted into a system of linear equations for theunknown coefficients of the legendre functions of the load distributionat a limited number of spanwise stations .  practical calculations are carried out on an electronic computer.  the solutions yield the optimum load distribution and thelocal incidence (twist, camber, etc.) necessary to realize thisdistribution .  for many wing plan forms, considerable gainsover a plane wing appear possible .
  recent results obtained for three-dimensional laminar boundarylayers are extended to the turbulent case .  it is shown thatin the presence of highly cooled surfaces and of moderate machnumbers of the outer stream, the crossflow and the pertainingreynolds stresses in a general three-dimensional turbulentboundary layer are negligible even for large transverse pressuregradients .  a correlation due to mager between two-dimensionalcompressible and incompressible turbulent boundarylayers is extended to the problem in question .  from a study ofthe transformation and of its implications, a rapid method forthe analysis of the boundary-layer flow under the subject conditionsis established .  in the absence of general three-dimensionaldata, a comparison with experiments and with the predictionsof other known analyses is carried out for several axisymmetricconfigurations,. the results of the method presentedhere exhibit good agreement with the data .  the range of validityof the cold wall approximation for general three-dimensionalproblems is estimated qualitatively on the basis of recent measurementsin laminar flow, the argument being that, for eitherzero or favorable streamwise pressure gradients, smaller threedimensionaleffects are to be expected in a turbulent boundarylayer, as compared to a laminar layer .
  the laminar boundary-layer equations are formulated andsolved for a flat plate in high-speed compressible air flow whereequilibrium dissociation and ionization are assumed and wherethere is an applied magnetic field having its component normalto the plate proportional to .  the skin-friction and heattransfercharacteristics are determined for free-stream velocitiesof up to 17,500 meters sec. and magnetic fields of up to about  the results show that the skin friction and heat transfer at agiven free-stream velocity decrease with increasing magneticfield strength, and the percentage reduction is constant alongthe length of the plate .  they also exhibit the same hysteresisbehavior as was first found in the case of magnetoaerodynamiccouette flow,. however, for the flat plate the hysteresis effectdisappears at a higher mach number .  furthermore, it wasfound that the reduction in heat transfer with increasing fieldstrength is opposite in behavior from that for couette flow .
  the flow between concentric porous cylinders in relative axialmotion with a pressure gradient is considered .  the analysis isrestricted by the assumption that the velocity distribution is afunction of the radial coordinate only so that there is no net injectionor withdrawal of fluid at any station .  this assumption reducesthe problem to a soluble system of ordinary differentialequations .  an associated heat-transfer problem is also discussedbriefly .
  experiments were made with a series of cones, each having anincluded angle of 15 degrees, and having different tip radii (sharpto blunt nose) .  the cones were tested in streams, undisturbedmach numbers of 3.12 and 3.81, and the position of transition toturbulence was observed with a shadowgraph technique .  for eachmach number the distance to transition (distance downstream fromthe tip of the cone) increased with increase in tip radius, reacheda maximum at a certain tip radius, and then decreased with increasein tip radius .  a study indicates that a reynolds numberbased on the momentum thickness, instead of the length from tip totransition, is a more appropriate parameter for correlating the data .the research scientist active in this field probably would derivethe most benefit from the original paper .
  pressure distribution measurementson five circular cones with totalapex-angles ranging from 25 to 45 degreesare described .  the tests covereda range of angles of incidence from 0 toand 8.60 .  the extent to which variousanalytical and empirical theoriespredict the measured pressures is assessed .
  charts are presented coveringa wide range of reflected-shockwind-tunnel operating conditions, usingnitrogen as the working gas .  astatistical-mechanical model of the gasis assumed which takes account ofmolecular vibration, electronic excitationand dissociation .  the gas isassumed to be constantly in equilibrium thatis, the reaction rates aretaken to be infinitely fast .  the equationsof motion are solved with theaid of a digital computer, previously reportedresults for the state of theshock-processed gas in the shock-tube being used .
  this paper describes the flexiblesurfaces whose properties havebeen examined and which have been tested onan aerofoil in a wind tunnel .the experiment has been rather inconclusiveas no drag reductions have beenfound in turbulent flow, whilst the onlyrearward movements of transitionoccurred in conditions where the alterationhas been inhibited by the onsetof laminar separation .  the limitations ofthe experiment are discussedcarefully in order to clarify the next stepswhich are to be taken withmore flexible surfaces with less damping .
  an analysis is made of the interaction of an injectedgas or liquid with a supersonic stream,and the force induced on an adjacent wall is predicted .the study deals only with the freestream-injectantinteraction,. the modifications to theflow introduced by the boundary layerare not considered .  in the case of liquids, it is shownthat the momentum deficit of the injectantrelative to the freestream may play a larger partin producing the side force than thevolume generation by vaporization and reaction .  theanalytical results are compared withthose obtained from experiments in a wind tunnel and in nozzles .
  a numerical lifting-surface method hasbeen used to calculate direct gustforces and moments on wings of severalplanforms .  the gust velocities are continuousand vary sinusoidally in the streamdirection and are also uniform acrossthe wing span .  the procedure has theadvantage of rapid machine calculation andincludes the effects of wing planform,nonsteady subsonic flow, and induced floweffects .  the method provides for calculationof gust forces on a basis consistentwith that for the calculation of forcesdue to motion and deformation .  theresults include the in-phase and quadraturecomponents of the followingquantities ..  (a) spanwise distribution ofsection lift coefficient, (b) totallift coefficient, and (c) total pitching-momentcoefficient .  in addition, generalizedgust forces on approximate fundamentalcantilever bending modes (parabolic)are also included .  results have beenobtained for 60 and 75 delta wings,ratio 11.60, and an unswept wing of aspectratio 6.00 .  conditions for which calculationswere made include two mach numbersreduced-frequency range of 0 to 1.0 .  thedirect gust forces and moments are informs suitable to be inserted in equationsof motion used in the calculation ofthe dynamic responses of flexible liftingvehicles to random turbulence and to becompared with results from other methods .
  in order to investigate thereliability of flutter data measuredin the langley transonic dynamicstunnel, an experimental and theoreticalsubsonic and transonic flutter studyhas been conducted in air and infreon-12 in this facility .  the wingplanform employed had an aspectratio of 4.0, a taper ratio of 0.6,and 45 of quarter-chord sweepback .a sting-mounted full-span model wastested in addition to three sizes ofwall-mounted semispan models .  a widerange of mass ratio was covered bythe tests in air and by fluttercalculations made by the modified stripanalysismethod of naca researchmemorandum l57l10 .  a limited amount ofdata was obtained in freon-12 .  results of the tests in airand in freon-12 are in good agreementwith the flutter calculations atall mach numbers .  the test data comparefavorably with previouslypublished transonic flutter data for thesame wing planform .  the resultsindicate that flutter characteristicsobtained in freon-12 may be interpreteddirectly as equivalent flutterdata in air at the same mass ratio and mach number .
  an analysis has been made ofatmosphere entries for which thespacecraft lift-drag ratios weremodulated to limit the maximum deceleration.  the parts of the drag polarsused during modulation were frommaximum lift coefficient to minimumdrag coefficient .  five drag polarsof different shapes were assumed forthe spacecraft .  the entries coveredwide ranges of initial velocity,initial flight-path angle, initialand maximum lift-drag ratio .two-dimensional trajectory calculations weremade for a nonrotating, sphericalearth with an exponential atmosphere .the results of the analysis indicatefor four of the five drag polars that,relative to the maximum decelerationof an unmodulated entry at maximumlift-drag ratio, the greatest reductionin maximum deceleration obtainableby modulation depends upon a singleparameter .  this parameter is the ratioof the value of the aerodynamicresultant-force coefficient at minimumdrag coefficient to the value atmaximum lift coefficient .  thus, thereduction in maximum decelerationis independent of initial velocity,initial flight-path angle, initialmaximum lift-drag ratio, andthe shape of the drag polar .  forthe fifth drag polar, the reduction inmaximum deceleration was found todepend upon the maximum lift-drag ratio .also, relative to the depth of agiven deceleration-limited corridor, thegreatest increase in corridor depthobtainable by modulation (for four ofthe five drag polars) depends uponthe same ratio of aerodynamic resultantforcecoefficients .  the fractionalincrease in corridor depth can beexpressed as an empirically determinedanalytical function of this ratio .
  the effects of jet pluming onnormal force and pitching moment ofhave been measured at a free-streammach number of 9.65 with reynoldsnumbers based on model length of 500,000to 600,000 .  geometric variablesincluded nose bluntness, flare half-angle,and nozzle geometry and exit displacement .two test nozzles with designmach numbers of 3.74 and 4.60 were operatedwith compressed air to simulatethe initial jet-boundary shape of aparticular solid-propellantrocket motor operating between altitudesof 165,000 and 215,000 feet .the ratio of the jet pressure to free-streamstatic pressure varied froma jet-off condition to approximately 1,300for the nozzle with design machnumber of 3.74, and from a jet-off conditionto approximately 280 for thenozzle with design mach number of 4.60 .the angle-of-attack range wasfrom 0 to approximately 6 .  the results indicate that as thejet-pressure ratio was increasedthe size of the jet plume increased,and as a result the model staticstability was decreased .  increasingthe angle of attack resulted in areduction in static instability duringthe jet-on condition .  increasingnose bluntness resulted in a more forwardmovement of the center of pressurewhen jet-plume interference was notpresent and a rearward movementin the center of pressure when jetinterference was present .  increasingthe nozzle-area expansion ratio anddisplacing the nozzle exit downstreamof the flare base resulted in a morerearward location of the center ofpressure .
  the problem of optimum designof axially compressed cylindersstiffened by rings and stringers isdiscussed .  particular attentionis devoted to configurationssuitable for large launch vehicles.  consideration is given tothe analytical techniques fordetermining strength as well asthe procedures for optimization .
  the matrix force method of redundantstructure analysis is currentlybeing extended by various users to covera number of non-linear problems .one of these is the non-linear analysisof heated cambered wings, such asmight be used in advanced flight vehicles .in this case the approach usedby the present authors is equally applicableto shallow shells, the formulationof the strain-displacement andequilibrium relations being afinite element equivalent to that usedby marguerre .  the solution isobtained by a combined iteration and stepby step procedure utilizing atangent flexibility matrix .  divergencein the calculations indicatesthat the range of stable configurationshas been exceeded .  camberedplates subjected to several loadings aregiven as examples,. for one, anexact solution is available for comparison .  it is believed that the basic conceptsinvolved in this shallowshell analysis can be extended to applyto other, more general shellinstability problems, and that usefulsolutions to the latter are probablywithin the capability of present day digital computers .
  the purpose of this paper is to review some recent advancesin the study of gasdynamic problems includingeffects of chemical reactions .  to provide a background forthe study the general concepts shall be outlined briefly .  thediscussions of the recent developments are restricted to inviscidflow problems only, neglecting viscosity, heat conductionand diffusion .  particular attention is directed to recentadvances in analyses of nonequilibrium dissociating gasflows .  in the hypersonic flight regime, high stagnation enthalpiessufficient to cause dissociation are realized .  whenthe time to reach equilibrium is comparable with the time ittakes for a fluid particle to pass through the flow, then thereexist regions of the flow field where nonequilibrium states areencountered .  a brief survey of both the linear and the nonlinearmethods of treatment of these nonequilibrium flows,including some new developments that have not appearedelsewhere, will be presented .
  analysis and solutions of the streamtube gasdynamics involving coupled chemical rate equationsare carried out .  results are presented for airflowsalong the surface of blunt bodies and throughhypersonic nozzles .  speeds and altitudes correspondingto re-entry were selected to obtain initialconditions for the external flow calculations .  conditionsappropriate to hypersonic tunnel testingwere chosen for the nozzle flow calculations .  compositionhistories are shown for a kinetic mechanismincluding 6 species and 14 reactions .  gas-dynamic effectsof nonequilibrium processes qualitativelyresemble those reported earlier .  however, the freezingprocess is complicated by the coupling of thenitric oxide shuffle reactions with the dissociation-recombinationreactions .  in many cases of hypersonicnozzle flows where the energy in nitrogen dissociationis significant, the fast shuffle reactionsprevent nitrogen-atom freezing which would otherwise occurif three-body recombination were the onlyprocess operating .  nitric oxide concentrationsundershoot the equilibrium values if the ratio ofnitric oxide to oxygen molecule concentrationsexceeds unity in the freezing region .  this depletionof nitric oxide leads to nitrogen-atom freezing .
  approximate methods are developed for solvingthe electron-ion kinetic equations in expandingquasi one-dimensional airflows .  results are obtainedfor inviscid nozzle flows at conditions appropriateto shock tunnel testing and are comparedwith exact numerical solutions .  effects on rftransmission and d-c conductivity are examined .since two-body deionization never fully freezesin the flows considered here, the assumption of suddenfreezing gives an upper bound on the residualionization at large area ratios .  the use of anasymptotic form of solution with the freezing criterionprovides an improved estimate for such cases .ionization nonequilibrium is also consideredfor the plasma sheath associated with blunthypersonic bodies flying at high altitudes .the influence of atomic ions is examined for typicalre-entry conditions .
  the physical properties behind a normal shock innitrogen are calculated as a function of time .these include the variation of temperature, composition,ionization, and the intensity of radiationfrom the n first negative band system .  this calculationincorporates a rate equation for the dissociationof nitrogen, the conservation laws, an equationdescribing vibrational relaxation, and amethod of coupling the vibrational relaxation with thedissociation rate .  the n radiation is computedassuming excitation of the radiating state bycollision with vibrationally excited nitrogenmolecules .  a particular case is considered for whichexperimental data are available, and regionssensitive to particular rates are indicated .
a decade ago tsien (1) (as well as others) and, more recently,adams and probstein (2) have attempted to definethe different regimes of gaseous interactions during highaltitude flight .  in this note some results are presented whichare pertinent to the flight of hypersonic lifting vehicles composedof axially symmetric and two-dimensional elements,.sec. fig. 1 .
  large downstream movements of transition observed when theleading edge of a hollow cylinder or a flat plate is slightlyblunted are explained in terms of the reduction in reynoldsnumber at the outer edge of the boundary layer due to the detachedshock wave .  the magnitude of this reduction is computedfor cones and wedges for mach numbers to 20 .  concurrentchanges in outer-edge mach number and temperature occurin the direction that would increase the stability of the laminarboundary layer .  the hypothesis is made that transition reynolds number issubstantially unchanged when a sharp leading edge or tip isblunted .  this hypothesis leads to the conclusion that thedownstream movement of transition is inversely proportional tothe ratio of surface reynolds number with blunted tip or leadingedge to surface reynolds number with sharp tip or leadingedge .  this conclusion is in good agreement with the hollowcylinderresult at mach 3.1 .  application of this hypothesis to other mach numbers yieldsthe result that blunting the tip of a slender cone or the leadingedge of a thin wedge should produce downstream movements oftransition by factors ranging from 2 at mach 3.0 to 30 at machthe possible reduction in over-all heat-transfer rate and frictiondrag for aircraft flying at high supersonic speeds .  mach number profiles near the surfaces of blunted cones andwedges are computed for an assumed shape of the detachedshock wave at flight mach numbers to 20 .  the dissipation andstability of these profiles are discussed, and a method is describedfor estimating the amount of blunting required to producethe maximum possible downstream movement of transition .
  in a former paper (1) it has been shown that the behaviourof the laminar boundary layer on a body of revolution canbe described mathematically by the same equations which are alsoapplied to the processes in the laminar boundary layer in thetwo-dimensional flow along a body contour, the form of which isdetermined by the shape of the body of revolution .  a simplerelation exists between the two-dimensional boundary layers andthe axially symmetrical ones .  the flow had been assumed to beincompressible .  in this report it shall be shown that this relationis still valid when the compressibility is taken into consideration.  the distribution of velocity as well as that of temperaturein the laminar boundary layer of a body of revolutioncan be calculated by solving the corresponding problem for thetwo-dimensional flow around a suitable contour .  the method ismade clear by the example of the supersonic flow towards a conetip,. this example has already been treated by another methodby hantzsche and wendt (2) .
  the development of the boundarylayer in a velocity shear layer isdiscussed for two-dimensional flowand for axisymmetric flow of bothcompressible and incompressible fluids .it is shown that the solutionsobtained by li and glauert for thetwo-dimensional flow of an incompressiblefluid are applicable in themore general case after suitabletransformations of coordinates havebeen made .  new definitions are shownto be necessary, and are given, forthe displacement and momentum thicknessesof such a boundary layer .  reynoldsnumbers based on these thicknesses aregiven, and it is shown that any phenomenonwhich occurs at a constant value of sucha reynolds number will occur at apoint which, as the length scale of theflow increases, first moves downstreamand then moves slightly upstream .this is shown to be in qualitativeagreement with experimental results on ablunt cone in a supersonic flow .a quantitative comparison of the theoreticaland experimental values ofdisplacement and momentum thicknesses isattempted, and no disagreement isobvious,. unfortunately the accuracy of theexperiments so far available isinsufficient to give positive confirmationof the theory of this note .
  the cone is considered to bemoving at a velocity higher than thatof sound, so that there is in frontof it a shock wave, moving with thesame speed as the cone itself .  inthe first part of the paper, the case isinvestigated mathematically wherethe flow is irrotational, and the pressure,velocity and density of the airstream are each constant over thesurfaces of cones coaxial with themoving solid cone .  the completesolution is obtained in numericalform, for cones of semi-vertical angleof the paper, the results are comparedwith experiment, both in respect ofpressure distribution as measured in awind tunnel, and also (for the 30cone) by comparison with photographsof bullets in flight .  in the latter casethe theory should only be applicableif the speed is 1.46 or more times thevelocity of sound, and it is in factfound in the photographs, that the natureof the wave alters at about thisvelocity .  the exact solution found, iscompared with an approximationgiven recently by v. karman and moore .this should be valid for thinspindle-shaped bodies, and does in factagree well in the case of the coneof 10 semi-vertical angle, but divergesincreasingly from the truth asthe angle is increased .
a general method is presented forthe study of a three-dimensional hypersonicflow about a body of arbitrary shape when .the manner of constructing a doubleasymptotic development inand is shown .  formulae are givenwhich enable the first three terms ofthis development to be obtained while neglecting .the theory is then applied to the case ofa body of circular-cone shape .  thepressure is given as a triple developmentin accordance with the precedingparameters and the angle of attack,. thisdevelopment neglects .  a. ferri'svortical layer is brought into evidence .a second application is devoted tocalculation of the total forces actingupon bodies of revolution at angles ofincidence, while neglecting .general formulae areestablished for the coefficients of axialforce, normal force and moments .the formulae are developed accordingto the powers of incidence, the firstterms of each formula being of very simple form .
  a programme of tests at hypersonicspeeds on slender bodies isdescribed, which has the aim ofinvestigating how lift is generated, andthe compromises that may be enforcedby aerodynamic heating .  the programmeis based on models of simple geometricshape, from which lifting configurationswill later be built up .
  pressure measurements made in the fort halstead supersonictunnel on two circular cones, of semiapex angles 15 andcoefficients are compared with corresponding values calculatedby theoretical methods, and the relative merits of these methodsare then discussed .
  two circular conical configurationshaving 15 half-angles weretested in laminar boundary layer at amach number of 6 and angles ofattack up to 90 .  one cone had a sharpnose and a fineness ratio ofblunted nose with a bluntness ratioof 0.1428 and a fineness ratio of 1.66 .pressure measurements andschlieren pictures of the flow showedthat near-conical flow existed upto an angle of attack of approximatelynear the base and the bow shockwave was considerably curved .  comparison of the results withsimply applied theories showed thaton the stagnation line pressures maybe predicted by newtonian theory,and heat transfer by local yawed-cylindertheory based on the yaw angleof the windward generator and the localradius of the cone .  base effectsincreased the heat transfer in a regionextending forward approximatelycircumferential pressuredistributions were higher than thecorresponding newtonian distributionand a better prediction was obtainedby modifying the theory to matchthe pressure at 90 from the windwardgenerator to that on the surfaceof the cone at an angle of attack of 0 .circumferential heat-transferdistributions were predicted satisfactorilyup to about 60 from thestagnation line by using lees' heat-fluxdistribution based on thenewtonian pressure .  the effects of nosebluntness at large angles ofattack were very small in the regionbeyond two nose radii from thepoint of tangency .
  the second and third volumes of the m.i.t. cone tables havebeen found to be unsatisfactory in two respects .  they have beencriticized because of their inconvenient tabulation and becausethe theory on which they are based is inadequate near the conesurface .  the former is climinated by means of a coordinatetransformation .  empirical evidence is presented to show thatthe latter may be ignored in practice .  the exact nature of certainnumerical errors in the table is also pointed out .
a detailed treatment of inviscid hypersonicflow past a circular cone is given, forsmall and moderate yaw angles, withinthe framework of shock-layer theory .the basic problem of non-uniform validityassociated with the singularity ofthe entropy field is examined and a validfirst-order solution is obtained whichprovides an explicit description of a thinvortical layer at the inner edge of theshock layer .  analytic formulas for pressureand circumferential velocity aregiven consistent to the second-orderapproximation including the non-linearyaw effect .  the study of the entropy field (whichis not restricted to the hypersonic case)also provides corrections to previouswork on the yawed cone and confirms thevalidity of the linear yaw effect on pressurefield in the stone theory .  a related investigation of three-dimensionalflow fields is presented withspecial reference to the flow structure nearthe surface of a pointed, but otherwisearbitrary body .  the inviscid streamlinepattern on the surface is given bythe geodesics originting from the pointednose as a leading approximation ofshock-layer theory .  associated with thisstreamline pattern is a vortical sublayerwhich exists generally at small as well as atlarge angle of attack .  at the base ofthe sublayer, enthalpy and flow speed remainessentially uniform .
  a survey is made of existingtheories for the calculation of pressuredistributions on slender bodies athypersonic speeds .  no account is takenof boundary layer displacement effectswhich are expected to become importantabove a mach number of about 10 for a slender body .  first the breakdown of linearisedsupersonic theory is demonstrated asmach number increases above about 5, andthis is followed by a derivation ofthe hypersonic similarity rule .  thissection includes a description of thepiston-analogy .  next a physical interpretationof hypersonic flow is outlined and asimple derivation of the modifiednewtonian pressure formula is given .  the equations of flow throughan oblique shock wave are simplified byassuming a strong shock, and variousresults are thereby derived .  these includethe tangent-wedge and tangent-cone formulae .  this is followed by a descriptionof the newtonian approximation forslender bodies, including the effect ofcentrifugal forces, and the connectionwith newtonian flow theory is emphasized for .  the shock-expansion method isdescribed in some detail for both twoandthree-dimensional bodies, andfinally some remarks are made about theavailable data sheets and tables forestimating pressures on cones and ogivecylindersin yaw .  the note does not claim to beoriginal, even in presentation .  the aimhas been to prepare a reasonably completesurvey of available theory for hypersonicflow over slender bodies, excludingviscous and explicit real gas effects .  this will provide the backgroundfor further work in which experimentaldata will be analysed and in conjunctionwith which it is hoped to produceaccurate design methods for estimatingpressures and forces on shapes intendedfor sustained flight at hypersonic speeds .
  simplified theoretical approachesare shown, based on hypersonicsimilarity boundary-layer theory,which allow reasonably accurate estimatesto be made of the surfacepressures on plates on which viscouseffects are important .  the considerationof viscous effects includesthe cases where curved surfaces,stream pressure gradients, and leadingedgebluntness are important factors .
  tabulated solutions arepresented for the equilibrium gasproperties behind the incident andreflected normal shock-waves in theshock-tube, for nitrogen and oxygen .they cover the range of shock-wavemach numbers up to 12 at intervals ofundisturbed gas pressure between 1 and  the thermodynamic model of thegas used in the calculationsis described in some detail, as is themethod of solving the equations .the limitations of the assumption ofthermodynamic equilibrium are discussedwith regard to shock-tube applications,and the estimated accuracy of thetables is indicated .
the performance of a shock tunnel operated by the reflected-shock techniqueis examined theoretically neglecting viscous effects and hightemperaturereal-gas effects . particular attention is given to disturbancesto the flow at the nozzle entry caused by waves reflected from the contact surface when the operating conditions depart from those forthat the first disturbance reflected from the contact surface is weakenough to be tolerated only within a small range of primary-shock machnumber, m /e.g., 5 7 m 6 3 if the pressure at entry to the nozzle is toremain constant to 10 per cent/ . within this range, running times muchlonger than those obtained in 'straight-through' shock tunnels are predicted,the limitation usually being imposed by the arrival of the expansionwave originating at the diaphragm .outside this range of mach number, the uniform-flow duration between the arrival at the nozzle entry of the primary shock and the first disturbancereflected from the contact surface is shown to be approximately equal to the time between the arrival of the primary shock and thecontact surface in a 'straight-through' shock tunnel . at first sight it appears, therefore, that the advantages of reflected-shock operationare confined to a very narrow range of shock mach number, unless aheated driver gas is used in order to vary the mach number forfurther analysis suggests, however, that subsequent disturbances in themultiple wave reflection process between the contact surface and the end of the tube are relatively weak over a useful range of shock mach number. thus, if the flow after the arrival of the early reflected disturbancesis used for test purposes, long running times seem possible in theory without severe restrictions to the shock mach number .experiments have been made in a shock tube and a shock tunnel to providedata for comparisons with the results of the simple theory . ifallowance is made for viscous effects on the motion of the contact surface,fair agreement is found for the disturbances reflected and transmittedby the contact surface, and for the arrival of the expansion wavereflection process increases when the shock mach number is raised substantiallyabove the 'tailored' value, and a limit to the usable flowduration may result .a striking feature of the results is a fall of pressure at the end ofthe tube immediately after reflection of the primary shock . this isattributed to attenuation of the reflected shock resulting from itsinteraction with the boundary layer on the wall of the tube . furtherresearch is required to check this explanation, and to investigate theeffects of reynolds number and of the cross-sectional shape and size ofthe tube . the effects of the tail and reflected head of the expansionwave originating at the main diaphragm are discussed . it is shown thatthe arrival of the reflected head at the nozzle entry may impose asevere limitation to the duration of uniform conditions at low shockmach number, and that the arrival of the tail may limit the flow durationat high shock mach number . unless means can be devised tosuppress the expansion wave, it is demonstrated that it is desirable tohave alternative diaphragm positions in a tube required to operate overa range of shock mach number .it is concluded that running times of order 10 milliseconds at a shockmach number of 4, falling to, perhaps, 1 millisecond at a shock machnumber of 8 seem possible in a shock tunnel of reasonable size by usingreflected-shock operation with unheated hydrogen driving air . becauseof the simplifying assumptions of the theoretical investigations, andthe deficiencies of the apparatus used for the experiments, the presentinvestigation must, however, be regarded as preliminary in character .further research is required to check and extend the findings, andtopics particularly requiring investigation are listed in the paper .
  this paper is intended to set forth aerodynamic andthermodynamic calculations which are useful in theproduction of strong shock waves .  the experimentalproduction of strong shock waves is discussed .  comparisonof the experimental shock strengths with thetheoretical calcualtions is made, and finally, somepreliminary results of shock tube studies in high temperaturegases (up to 18,000k) are briefly surveyed .
  estimates are made of the performanceof the rae 6'' high pressureshock tube, with various driver gases, overa range of pressure ratios givingshock mach numbers from 6 to 22 .  thecalculations are based on a simplifiedmodel of shock tube flow, in which theworking fluid (argon-free air) isassumed to be always in chemicalequilibrium, and the driver gas (eitherhydrogen, or the products of combustionof a hydrogen-oxygen mixture) isassumed to behave as an ideal gas withconstant specifiic heats .  the results are presented ingraphical form and comprise chartsnormal shock waves in argon-free airshock wave mach number and diaphragmpressure ratio under various initial conditions, andof the shock-induced flows, bothin the uniform-sectioned shock tube, andwhen expanded in a divergent nozzle
the sodium-line reversal method, as previously described, using aphotomultiplier and oscillograph, has been modified . two light beamsare now employed, and interference filters are used in front of thephotomultipliers instead of a spectrograph . in one beam the backgroundsource is viewed directly, through the shock tube, and in the other beam the background source is viewed through the shock tube by a mirrorsystem with a neutral filter interposed to reduce its effective brightnesstemperature . with a suitably chosen temperature for the background,one oscillograph trace indicates absorption and the other indicatesemission of the sodium lines . it is thus possible, from therecords of a single shock, to determine the temperature history behindthe shock wave to about 20degreec . nitrogen and oxygen again show relaxationeffects near the front . temperatures in argon tend to comelow, owing to radiative disequilibrium,. excitation processes in argonare discussed . with this system it is possible to determine temperaturesrather higher than that of the background source . some work hasalso been done, with a single-beam method, using a carbon arc asbackground and following reversal of the indium blue line . temperatures up to 3600degreek have been measured in shocks through nitrogen, butthe time resolution is not so good .
in a theoretical investigation of attenuation effects of the shock wavethe conservation of mass equation led to an explanation of the differencebetween the ideal theoretical test time and the experimentallyobtained time . a numerical example is given .
the sodium line reversal /s.l.r./ method has recently been used to measuretransient temperatures in the 1400degreek to 3000degreek range, for example ref.6 reports measurements of gun flash temperatures . in thegun tunnel, stagnation temperatures in the above range can be generatedflow between a blunt body and its bow shock wave . the gas temperaturein this zone is close to the stagnation value .
a hypersonic shock tunnel has been developed to investigate the aerodynamiccharacteristics of flow over bodies at conditions comparable tothose encountered by ballistic missiles and satellites re-entering theatmosphere . some results for a shock velocity of over 50,000 ft/sec inthe shock tube portion of the facility are presented . static pressureinvestigations were made in the nozzle for different stagnation conditionsin order to determine the flow condition and the expansion process.the results of the investigation on representative blunt bodies athypersonic mach numbers and nozzle stagnation temperatures up toapproximately 6000degreek are presented . these include body pressuredistributions, shock wave shapes, detachment distances, and photographsof the luminous gas region in the shock layer . it is seen that theshock detachment distance is smaller at higher stagnation temperaturesowing to the real gas effects . for the hemisphere the pressure distributionwas less than that predicted by the modified newtonian theory for all stagnation temperatures . for a 50degree cone-hemisphere thepressure distribution and the shock wave detachment distance wereappreciably affected by the real gas effects .the experimentally obtained shock wave shape and the approximateboundary layer on a flat plate are correlated with the analytical prediction. some preliminary results for the detached shock wave producedby a blunt two-dimensional body in a low density flow at a mach numberof 19.6 are presented .
  in part (1), as a first approach to a theoretical investigationof low aspect ratio rectangular plate wings of constant thickness,the two assumptions are made that ..  (a) the spanwise form ofthe structural distortion is known, leaving the chordwise distortionarbitrary,. and (b) the aerodynamic forces are approximationsof the supersonic linearized theory .  the form of thechordwise distortion is then deduced from the differential equationrepresenting the state of neutral equilibrium for small displacementsat the critical divergence speed .  secondly, this problem is investigated using measured structuralflexibility coefficients together with theoretical aerodynamiccoefficients .  thirdly, the usual series solution based on the rayleigh-ritzapproach is discussed, using the same assumptions as in the firstmethod .  all the results of these methods are consistent and indicate thatthe transonic regime at m = 1 is the most critical for divergence.  in part (2), it is established that sweeping the leading edge ofa plate airfoil of constant thickness increases its stability .  forangles of sweep less than 30, the critical conditions occur whenthe leading edge is sonic, but for angles greater than 30 thecritical conditions occur when m = 1 .
purpose of paper is to examine theoretically the use of coatings ofelastic materials to prevent transition from laminar to turbulent flow . theory is extension to flexible boundary of the small-disturbancetollmien-schlichting stability theory and makes use of /tietjensfunction/ and other functions that occur in solution of orr-sommerfeldequation . it is shown how solutions for flexible wall can be obtainedfrom solutions for rigid boundary .outline and discussion is given first for tollmien-schlichting stability theory for rigid wall, then for theory for flexible boundary . theoryis given both for a nondissipative and a dissipative flexible boundary . behavior of flexible medium itself is also examined .practical requirements are discussed . for example, a conclusion is that to avoid tollmien-schlichting instability, the wave velocity of surface waves in absence of flow should coincide with tollmien-schlichting wave velocity at wavelength of /most dangerous/ tollmien-schlichting waves . moreover, damping should be large enough to prevent surface waves fromdeveloping but not so large that tollmien-schlichting waves are permissable. author states that a boundary that is both soft and light,one whose elastic constants are of same order as the dynamic pressure of the flow, may be practical for use at high speeds . this surface should have a small damping to avoid tollmien-schlichting type of instabilityand a large enough wave speed without flow to avoid surface wave instability. although paper is somewhat sketchy in places, it gives comprehensivecoverage of stability of laminar flow over a flexible wall .
an appropriate form of the boundary layer stability equation isdeveloped for the condition where the fluid is in contact with an isotropicand homogeneous elastic medium, and various approximate analyticalsolutions obtained for certain types of surface, so as to reveal atleast qualitatively the origin and characteristics of neutral oscillations. in the worked solutions the elastic medium is treated as nondissipative,and the interior boundary is supposed either fixed, or free of stress, or exposed to fluid .. the boundary layer, also, is treatedas that over a flat-plate in an incompressible fluid .the results obtained show that the presence of such a resiliant surfaceintroduces the possibility of a number of other modes of oscillationschlichting waves . most of these modes have speeds of propagationdetermined largely by the properties of the elastic material, and theirpresence may well be effectively a matter of 'non-viscous' flowstability -dash a subject not treated here . the tollmien-schlichtingmode has its minimum reynolds number increased by the presence of thesurface, but if the interior boundary is free there may be an upperlimit as well . indeed, a sufficiently thin free surface, or one of lowrigidity, apparently eliminates neutral oscillations of this mode altogether,only at the expense, however, of the introduction of a mode offlexural waves .
  the use of an auxiliary slot on a laminar-flowaerofoil has been investigated to check whether laminarflow can be re-established by suction at the rear of the regionof deposited dirt, flies, etc .  results indicate that in the absence of unfavourable pressuregradients, it is possible to re-establish a laminarboundary layer by removing a little more than the whole turbulentlayer reaching the slot, and preliminary estimatessuggest that with efficient ducting it should be possible to achievea reduction in overall effective drag coefficient bythis means .
  the effect of isolated surface excrescences in alaminar boundary layer in producing disturbanceswhich may lead to turbulent flow has been examinedexperimentally by several methods .  photographs of someof the flow patterns visualised by smoke and china-claytechniques are given .  the critical heights of pimple which just give rise tospreading wedges of turbulent flow have been measuredon a flat plate and on two aerofoils at several angles ofincidence .  the results are analysed and are presented in aform which enables approximate estimates to be made of theprotuberances permissible on laminar-flow surfaces atfull-scale flight reynolds numbers .  the estimates suggestthat at an altitude of 30,000 ft the critical pimple heightis 0.004 in. for a speed of 350 m.p.h., whilst 0.002 in.may be permissible at all subsonic speeds .  at sea-level,however, the tolerances are approximately halved .
  wind-tunnel tests are described in which suctionis applied at perforated strips, as an alternative toporous strips or slots, in order to maintain a laminar boundarylayer .  a test was first carried out on a single row ofperforations on a cambered plate, as a preliminary to the maintests which were performed on strips of multiple rowsof perforations drilled through the surface of a low-drag-typeaerofoil 13 per cent thick and of 5-ft chord .  up to a wind speed of 180 ft sec it has been ascertained thatsuction may be safely applied to extend laminar flowprovided the ratio of hole diameter to boundary-layer displacementthickness is less than 2, the ratio of hole pitch todiameter is less than 3 and there are at least three rows of holesin the strip .  with less than three rows, the criteriaare much more restrictive .  it is possible to extend laminar flowby suction through perforations whose diameters andpitches exceed these values slightly, but only with the risk thatexcessive suction quantities will produce wedges ofturbulent boundary layer originating at the holes .  a uniform distribution of suction through the holes wasnecessary .  this was successfully obtained by two methods,the use of cells and throttle holes, and with tapered holes .in particular, tests were carried out on some panelssupplied by handley page, ltd., in which the cells and taperedholes had been constructed by commercial methods, andthe suction distribution proved satisfactory .  the resistance of some of the cellular arrangements wasmeasured .  it was found that when the suction quantitieswere the minimum required to maintain laminar flow, theadditional losses in total head of the sucked air due tothe resistance of the throttle holes could be made small comparedwith the loss in total head of the sucked boundarylayer .
  tests were conducted with 1300- to 1500-lb thrustsolid rocket motors in order to investigate theside-force generation mechanisms associated withthe injection of a secondary fluid into the expansioncone of a solid propellant rocket nozzle forthrust-vector control .  the nozzles were 15conicals with a nominal expansion ratio of .  allfirings were conducted in zero-flow ejectors .freon-12, water, and gascous nitrogen were used asthe injectant .  nozzle-wall pressure profiles,side thrust, and the nozzle-wall shock interface wererecorded .  the general character of the pressuredisturbance was defined .  the major portion ofthe side force was generated by the pressuredisturbance downstream of the injector .  the axialthrustaugmentation generated by the injectantwas calculated .  the effects of nozzle-expansionratio and injector location on the side forcewere clearly illustrated .
  concerning blast waves with front surfaces of plane, cylindrical andspherical shape, the propagation velocity u and the distribution ofhydrodynamical quantities are discussed .  the solutions are constructedin the form of power series in (c u), where c is the sound velocity ofundisturbed fluid .  especially r, the distance of shock front from thecharge, is represented as,where r is the characteristic length related to the energy of explosion,j and are constants, and a=0,1,2 correspond to plane, cylindrical andspherical case, respectively .  in this paper the first approximationsfor a=0,1 are discussed (the case a=2 has been discussed by g. i.taylor) .  the solution is obtained numerically for the case of theadiabatic index .  the approximate solution is also considered .  usingthese solutions, is found to be .  the second approximation will appear in part 2 to be publishedsubsequently .
  within the framework of linearizedflow theory an equivalence betweena fluid mass source, a heat source,and streamwise body forces isdeveloped .  the equivalence betweenthe fluid mass source and heatsource was first noticed by hicks(2)and later by chu .  (3) using theequivalence the flow field producedby heat addition and by magnetohydrodynamicalbody forces can be computed .  examples for a two-dimensionalflat plate, a delta wing, an axiallysymmetric slender body, and a wedge-shapedafterbody are computed atsubsonic and supersonic speeds .the efficiency of lift or thrust productionby surface heat addition isvery low at subsonic speeds .  atsupersonic speeds the efficiency iscompared with the efficiency of aconventional turbojet-powered aircraftconfiguration .  it is found thatthe efficiency of lift or thrust productionby heat addition on twodimensionalbodies is approximately the sameas that for a turbojetpoweredtwo-dimensional body .  theefficiency is somewhat higher at lowsupersonic mach numbers and behavesas, decreasing to aconstant value as increases .on the other hand, the efficiency ofthrust production by heat additionincreases linearly with mach numberwhen heat is added on the rear surfaceof an axially symmetric afterbodyof parabolic shape .
  this paper consists of three notes on the theory of two-dimensionalthin airfoils in non-uniform motion ..oscillating airfoil are collected from an earlier paper and are presentedin convenient forms for practical application .rigid airfoil passing through a vertical-gust pattern having asinusoidal distribution of intensity .  the lift is determined as afunction of the reduced frequency (which in this case is proportionalto the ratio of the airfoil chord and the wave length of thegust pattern) and is presented in the form of a vector diagram .it is shown that the lift acts at the quarter-chord point of the airfoilat all times .calculation of the amplitude of torsional oscillation of a fan bladeoperating in the wake of a set of pre-rotation vanes .  in anumerical example the amplitude is found to be small even whenthe vanes are spaced so that the exciting frequency coincideswith the natural frequency of the fan blade .
  the growth of lift on a airfoilstarting impulsively from rest to a uniform velocityhas been given by wagner (1925) .  thesteady-state lift due to circulation on an airfoiloscillating sinusoidally and moving withuniform velocity has been given by theodorsen  the present paper based essentially on thematerial of n. a. c. a. report no. 629 by theauthor, discusses some reciprocal relations ofthe nature of fourier transforms existing betweenthe functions of wagner and theodorsen .kussner (1936) has already shown that wagner'sfunction may be derived from theodorsen's function.  by means of a superposition principle itis possible to utilize these fundamental functionsto treat general problems in transientexpression which is accurate to within 2 percentis given for wagner's function .  this expressionleads to a good approximate expressionfor theodorsen's function in terms of the exponentialintegral, instead of hankel functions .an analogy is drawn between transient hydrodynamicflows and transient electrical flows .  kussner (1936) has introduced a functiondescribing the growth of lift on an airfoil enteringa sharp edged vertical gust region .  thisfunction bears a certain relation to wagner'sfunction which is briefly discussed .
  calculated responses of symmetricalairplane motions, wing deformations,and wing loads due to gusts areshown to compare favorably withavailable flight-test results .  thesecalculated responses are based onrandom-process theory, five degrees offreedom, lifting-surface aerodynamics,and one-dimensional verticalturbulence .  the extent to whichvarious degrees of freedom contributeto the responses is examined andin this connection the relative effectsof static and dynamic aeroelasticityare determined .
  spanwise lift distributions have been calculated for nineteenunswept wings with various aspect ratios and taper ratios andwith a variety of angle-of-attack or twist distributions, includingflap and aileron deflections, by means of the weissinger methodwith eight control points on the semispan .  also calculatedwere aerodynamic influence coefficients which pertain to acertain definite set of stations along the span, and severalmethods are presented for calculating aerodynamic influencefunctions and coefficients for stations other than those stipulated .  the information presented herein can be used in the analysisof untwisted wings or wings with known twist distributions, aswell as in aeroelastic calculations involving initially unknowntwist distributions .
  the problem of determining the aerodynamic forcesacting on wings of finite span in non-uniform motionin an incompressible, inviscid fluid is investigated .  the underlyingtheory is outlined in 2, and some known resultsfor the case of an aerofoil of infinite span are included in 3 .  it isshown in 4, by the use of operational methods,that the growth of lift function k (s) corresponding to a sudden unitchange of incidence can be derived from the liftfunction corresponding to simple harmonic translational motion .from results given by the writer for rectangularwings (1943) and tapered wings (1945) in simple harmonic motionthe corresponding values of k (s) are determined .the growth of lift function k (s) for a wing penetrating a uniformvertical gust can then be estimated as shown in 4and 5 .  by the use of approximate formulae for the growth of liftcurves given in fig. 2, the aerodynamic forcescorresponding to damped and growing translational oscillations arederived .  certain integrals involved in the theory are evaluated inappendix 1, and in appendix 2 the method of determiningk (s), when k (s) is known, is discussed in detail .  it is suggested that the aerodynamic forces acting on wingsof finite span for any type of motion can best be derivedfrom a knowledge of the forces corresponding to purelydivergent motion, which can be calculated by the methodsoutlined in this report .
  spanwise lift distributions have been calculated for 61 swept wingswith various aspect ratios and taper ratios and with a variety of angleof-attackor twist distributions, including flap and ailerondeflections, by means of the weissinger method with eight control pointson the semispan .  also calculated for these plan forms were aerodynamicinfluence coefficients which pertain to a certain definite set ofstations along the span .  the information presented herein can thus beused both in the analysis of untwisted wings or wings with known twistdistributions and in aeroelastic calculations involving initiallyunknown twist distributions .  this paper supplements and is intended to be used in conjunctionwith naca tn 3014, where the same type of information, calculated in thesame way, is presented for 19 unswept wings .
  the thermodynamic propertiesof freon-12 have beeninvestigated to determine thepossibilities of the useof this gas as a fluid foraerodynamic testing .  thevalues of velocity of soundin freon-12, which are lessthan one-half those in air,are presented as functionsof temperatures and pressure,including measurements atroom temperature .  the densityof freon-12 is aboutfour times that of air .  changesin state of freon-12may be predicted by means of theideal gas law with anaccuracy of better than 1 percentat pressures belowfreon-12 is shown notto condense during an adiabaticexpansion from normalconditions up to a mach numberof 3 .  the values of theratio of specific heatsfor freon-12 are lower thanthat for air, and thereforean additional parameter isintroduced, which must beconsidered when comparisonsare made of aerodynamic testsusing freon-12 with thoseusing air .  the time lag of thevibrational heat capacityof freon-12 to a change intemperature has beenmeasured and found to beof the order of 2 x 10 secondat atmospheric temperatureand pressure .  this timeis so short that no importantenergy dissipationsshould result in mostengineering applications .
  a number of studies relating tothe use of freon-12 as asubstitute medium for air in aerodynamictesting have been made .  theuse of freon-12 instead of air makespossible large savings in windtunneldrive power .  because of thefact that the ratio of specificheats is approximately 1.13 for freon-12as compared with 1.4 for air,some differences exist between dataobtained in freon-12 and in air .methods for predicting aerodynamiccharacteristics of bodies in airfrom data obtained in freon-12, however,have been developed from theconcept of similarity of the streamlinepattern .  these methods,derived from consideration of two-dimensionalflows, provide substantialagreement in all cases for which comparativedata are available .  thesedata consist of measurements throughouta range of mach number fromapproximately 0.4 to 1.2 of pressuredistributions and hinge moments onswept and unswept wings having aspectratios ranging from 4.0 to 9.0,including cases where a substantialpart of the wing was stalled .  the freon charging and recoverysystem used for the langley lowturbulencepressure tunnel is described .
  an experimental and analytical investigation of the flutterof sweptback cantilever wings is reported .  the experimentsemployed groups of wings swept back by rotating and byshearing .  the angle of sweep ranged from 0 to 60 andmach numbers extended to approximately 0.85 .  a theoreticalanalysis of the air forces on an oscillating swept wing of highlength-chord ratio is developed, and the approximations inherentin the assumptions are discussed .  comparison withexperiment indicates that the analysis developed in the presentreport is satisfactory for giving the main effects of sweep, atleast for nearly uniform cantilever wings of high and moderatelength-chord ratios .  a separation of the effects of finite spanand compressibility in their relation to sweep has not been madeexperimentally but some combined effects are given .  a discussionof some of the experimental and theoretical trends isgiven with the aid of several tables and figures .
an experimental investigation has been conducted in the 26-inch langleytransonic blowdown tunnel to determine effects of center-of-gravitylocation on the transonic flutter characteristics of a 45degree sweptback-wingplan form of aspect ratio 4.0 and taper ratio 0.6 . solidconstructionmodels of the plan form with streamwise naca 65a004 airfoilsections and center-of-gravity locations at approximately 34 percentchord, 46 percent chord, and 58 percent chord, respectively, werefluttered at several mach numbers between 0.8 and 1.35 .it was found that, for streamwise mach numbers from 0.8 to 1.0, thevariation with mach number of the ratio of experimental flutter speed to a calculated incompressible flutter speed was not affected by centerof-gravitylocation . however, for mach numbers from 1.0 to 1.35, therewas an increase in flutter-speed ratio with mach number which wasdifferent for each center-of-gravity position . data from wings withsuccessively more forward center-of-gravity locations showed successivelylarger values of flutter-speed ratio at mach numbers from 1.0 to
a method has been developed for calculating flutter characteristics offinite-span swept or unswept wings at subsonic and supersonic speeds .the method is basically a rayleigh type analysis and is illustrated with uncoupled vibration modes although coupled modes can be used . theaerodynamic loadings are based on distributions of section lift-curveslope and local aerodynamic center calculated from three-dimensionalsteady-flow theory . these distributions are used in conjunction withthe /effective/ angle-of-attack distribution resulting from each of theassumed vibration modes in order to obtain values of section lift andpitching moment . circulation functions modified on the basis of loadingsfor two-dimensional airfoils oscillating in a compressible flow are employed to account for the effects of oscillatory motion on the magnitudesand phase angles of the lift and moment vectors .flutter characteristics have been calculated by this method for 12 wings of varying sweep angle, aspect ratio, taper ratio, and center-ofgravityposition at mach numbers from 0 to as high as 1.75 . comparisons of the results with experimental flutter data indicate that this method gives generally good flutter results for a broad range of wings .
a simple method is presented for controlling the bending and torsionalstiffnesses of a solid-construction model wing . the method consists ofweakening the wing by drilling holes through the wing normal to thechord plane . aerodynamic continuity is maintained by filling the holeswith a relatively soft material . the important parameters controllingthe stiffnesses are the amount of material removed by drilling, theratio of hole diameter to wing thickness, and the plan-form pattern ofthe holes . data are given which may be used for predicting the stiffnessof a model wing weakened in this manner .
an investigation of the effects of systematic variations in wing planform on the flutter speed at mach numbers between 0.73 and 1.43 has been conducted in the 26-inch langley transonic blowdown tunnel . the angleof sweepback was varied from 0degree to 60degree on wings of aspectratio 4, and the aspect ratio was varied from 2 to 6 on wings withexperimental flutter speed and the reference flutter speed calculated on the basis of incompressible two-dimensional flow . this ratio, designatedas the flutter-speed ratio, is plotted as a function of mach numberfor the various wings . it is found that the flutter-speed ratioincreased rapidly past sonic speed for sweep angles of 45degree andless, indicating a favorable effect of mach number . for sweepback ofmach number range of the tests . reducing the aspect ratio had a favorableeffect on the flutter-speed ratio which was of the order of 100percent higher for the aspect-ratio-2 wing than for the aspect-ratio-6wing . this percentage difference was nearly constant throughout themach number range, indicating that the effect of mach number was aboutthe same for all aspect ratios tested .
the object of the report is to establish a routine method for the calculationof aerodynamic loads on wings of arbitrary shape . the methoddeveloped is based on potential theory and uses a general mathematicalformula for continuous loading on a wing which is equivalent to a double fourier series with unknown coefficients . in order to evaluate theunknown coefficients the continuous loading is split up into a regularpattern of horseshoe vortices, the strengths of which are proportionalto the unknown coefficients and to standard factors which are given in a table . the total downwash at chosen pivotal points is obtained bysumming the downwashes due to the individual vortices, a process whichis simplified by the use of specially prepared tables of the propertiesof the horseshoe vortex . by equating the downwash to the slope of thewing at each pivotal point, simultaneous equations are obtained, thesolution of which defines the unknown coefficients .the first layout involves a total of 76 vortices over the wing, and asecond layout, involving a total of 84, is shown to be of superioraccuracy . the effect on the solution of the number of pivotal points is investigated and it is concluded that by a suitable choice, it is unnecessaryto use a large number . results for a rectangular wing atwith those obtained by other workers and it appears that there may beerrors in published results in at least one of these cases . immediatedevelopment includes the application to the calculation of the characteristicsof actual sweptback wings, including rotary derivatives, and future development includes also applications in wind tunnel design and technique .
  the method of superposition of linearized conical flows hasbeen applied to the calculation of the aerodynamic properties, insupersonic flight, of thin flat, swept-back wings at an angle ofattack .  the wings are assumed to have rectilinear plan forms,with tips parallel to the stream, and to taper in the conventionalsense .  the investigation covers the moderately supersonic speedrange where the mach lines from the leading-edge apex lie aheadof the wing .  the trailing edge may lie ahead of or behind themach lines from its apex .  the case in which the mach conefrom one tip intersects the other tip is not treated .  formulas are obtained for the load distribution, the total lift,and the drag due to lift .  for the cases in which the trailing edgeis outside the mach cone from its apex (supersonic trailing edge),the formulas are complete .  for the wing with both leading andtrailing edges behind their respective mach lines, a degree ofapproximation is necessary .  it has been found possible to givepractical formulas which permit the total lift and drag to becalculated to within 2 or 3 percent of the accurate linearizedtheoryvalue .  the local lift can be determined accurately overmost of the wing, but the trailing-edge-tip region is treated onlyapproximately .  charts of some of the functions derived are included to facilitatecomputing, and several examples are worked out in outline .
  an analysis has been made ofatmosphere entries for which thevehicle lift-drag ratio was modulatedto maintain specified maximumdecelerations and or maximum decelerationrates .  the part of thevehicle drag polar used during modulationwas from maximum lift coefficientto minimum drag coefficient .  theentries were at parabolic velocityand the vehicle maximum lift-drag ratiowas 0.5 .  two-dimensional trajectorycalculations were made for anonrotating, spherical earth with anexponential atmosphere .  the resultsof the analysis indicate that for agiven initial flight-path angle,modulation generally resulted in a reductionof the maximum decelerationto 60 percent of the unmodulated value ora reduction of maximum decelerationrate to less than 50 percent of theunmodulated rate .  these results wereequivalent, for a maximum decelerationof 10g, to lowering the undershootboundary 24 miles with a resultingdecrease in total convective heating tothe stagnation point of 22 percent .however, the maximum convective heatingrate was increased 18 percent,. themaximum radiative heating rate and totalradiative heating were eachincreased about 10 percent .
  by employing aerodynamic lift during entry into the earth'satmosphere at either orbital or /escape/ velocity, the range ofallowable entry angles for a prescribed peak deceleration isgreatly increased, while the total heat energy transferred to thevehicle can be held to about the same value as for a nonliftingvehicle .  only modest lift-drag ratios are required beyond peak gto prevent the deceleration from exceeding the peak value, or toprevent the vehicle from skipping out of the earth's atmosphere .thus, the difficult guidance and control problem is greatlyalleviated,. in particular, for return from the moon or otherplanets the necessity for multiple-pass drag braking is eliminated .
  the technique of modulation, or variable coefficients, is discussedand the analytical formulation is reviewed .  representative numericalresults of the use of modulation are shown for the lifting andnonlifting cases .  these results include the effects of modulation onpeak acceleration, entry corridor, and heat absorption .  results aregiven for entry at satellite speed and escape speed .  the indicationsare that coefficient modulation on a vehicle with good liftingcapability offers the possibility of sizable loading reductions or,alternatively, wider corridors,. thus, steep entries become practicalfrom the loading standpoint .  the amount of steepness depends on theacceptable heating penalty .  the price of sizable fractions of thepossible gains does not appear to be excessive .
  a simple closed-form solutionfor the achievable corridor depthsand entry angles as a function ofg-load limit, entry velocity, andvehicle aerodynamics and thermodynamicsis developed for two modes ofvehicle operation, constant angleof attack and modulated angle of attack .  for constant angle of attack,operation at maximum negative liftcoefficient on the overshoot bound,and at an angle of attack betweenzero and that for maximum lift-dragratio on the undershoot bound, givesthe deepest corridor .  for modulatedangle of attack, operating at maximumnegative lift coefficient on theovershoot bound and modulatingthe angle of attack from maximumpositive lift coefficient to zero onthe undershoot bound give the deepestcorridor .  the modulated angle ofattack gives corridor depths two tofour times larger than the fixedangle of attack .  for both cases thecorridor depth is increased by increasingmaximum lift-drag ratio,increasing g limit, and decreasingentry velocity .  consideration of hot-gas radiationplaces a limit on the maximumangle of attack for either mode ofoperation .  if a maximum free-streamreynolds number limit must be placedon the vehicle to ensure a laminarboundary layer, the deep atmosphericpenetrations associated with configurationswith high lift-drag ratiomay be ruled out .  both of thesethermodynamic considerations reducethe acceptable corridor depth belowthe value calculated from aerodynamicconsiderations alone .
  stagnation point radiative heatingrates for manned vehicles enteringthe earth's atmosphere at parabolicvelocity are presented and comparedwith corresponding laminar convectiveheating rates .  the calculationswere made for both nonlifting and liftingentry trajectories for vehiclesof varying nose radius, weight-to-arearatio, and drag .  it is concludedfrom the results presented that radiativeheating will be important forthe entry conditions considered .
  an investigation has beenundertaken in the langley 11-inchhypersonic tunnel at a free-streammach number of 6.86 to determinethe jet-interference effects athigh jet-static-pressure ratios on thestability and control of a researchtypeairplane configuration .compressed-air tests with a jetexhausting from the base of the fuselagewere conducted over a reynoldsnumber range of 0.57 x 10 toand over a jet-static-pressureratiorange of 0 to 1460 .  the resultsof these tests indicated thatthe operation of the jet induced asizable separated-flow region overthe vertical- and horizontal-tailsurfaces which could be approximatelyduplicated at low angles of attackby use of metal jet-boundary simulators.  the results of force tests,during which these metal jetboundarysimulators were used,indicated that this separated-flowregion caused a large reduction inthe longitudinal stability and controland a smaller reduction in thelateral and directional stabilityand control .  by extending thedivergent section of the nozzle and thusreducing the jet-static-pressureratio, these losses were diminished .
  the interference effects of abillowing jet on the forces and momentsof two missile-type bodieswere investigated in the nasa lewis 2by2-foot mach 3.85 wind tunnel .to simulate a rocket jet, pressurizednitrogen was exhausted from anannular sonic nozzle .  the results indicate that forboth models the stability parametermoment coefficient with angle ofattack) in the region of zero angleof attack was favorably influencedby the interference resulting fromseparation due to jet billowing .schlieren photographs are presentedthat show the separation due to thejet billowing at various pressureratios and angles of attack .
  schlieren photographs have beentaken of the flow over conecylinder-flarebodies to study theextent of boundary-layer separationdue to the presence of rocket jetplumes .  tests were made of three conecylinder-flareconfigurations inthe langley 11-inch hypersonic tunnel ata mach number of 9.65 and in thelangley unitary plan wind tunnel at amach number of 4.65 with twoadditional configurations .  the streamreynolds number varied fromapproximately 317,000 to 582,000 based onmodel length .  the conical flareshad half-angles of 7 or 13 and containedone of two test nozzles witha design mach number of 3.72 or 4.53 .the test nozzles were operated withcompressed air and were designed tosimulate a solid-propellant rocketmotor operating at altitudes betweento free-stream static-pressure ratiovaried from jet off to 1,150 for thetest nozzle with a design machnumber of 3.72 and from jet off tomach number of 4.53 .  for most ofthe tests the angle-of-attack rangewas 0 to -4,. some additional testswere made at 2 and 4 .  measurements taken from flow picturesindicated that at zero angleof attack on all configurations testedwith jet on the boundary layerseparates ahead of the flare-cylinderjuncture and the separation pointmoves toward the cone-cylinder juncturewith an increase in pressureratio .  increasing angle of attackreduced the extent of boundary-layerseparation on the windward side asdid increasing the stream mach numberfrom 4.65 to 9.65 .  other parameterswhich tended to reduce the extentof boundary-layer separation were ..number, (b) decreasing stream reynoldsnumber, and (c) displacing nozzleexit rearward .
  an aerodynamic investigationof a parabolic body of revolution wasconducted at a mach number of 1.92with and without an annular supersonicjet exhausting from the base .measurements with the jet inoperative weremade of lift, drag, pitching moment,radial and longitudinal pressuredistributions, and base pressures .with the jet in operation, measurementswere made of the pressuresover the rear of the body with the primaryvariables being angle of attack,ratio of jet velocity to freestreamvelocity, and ratio of jetpressure to stream pressure .  the results with the jet inoperativeshowed that the radial pressuresover the body varied appreciablyfrom the distribution generallyemployed in most approximate theories .the linearized solutions for lift,pitching moment, and center of pressuregave relatively poor predictionsof the experimental results .  an analysisof several theoretical methodsfor calculating pressure distribution andwave drag showed that somemethods gave results in considerabledisagreement with experimental values .  maximum effects of the jet wereobtained at the lower ratio of jetvelocity to stream velocity and thehighest ratio of jet pressure tostream pressure .  these effects amountedto a slight decrease in foredrag,a reduction in lift, and a shiftof center of pressure in adestabilizing direction .
 hypersonic tunnel .  flow surveys have been made inthe first of several nozzles to beinvestigated in the langley 11-inchhypersonic tunnel .  the nozzle wasdesigned by the method of characteristicsfor a mach number of 6.98 .  twostep expanded the air in thehorizontal plane to a mach number of 4.36and the second in the verticalplane to a mach number of 6.98 .  the test results showed that, althougha maximum mach number ofabout 6.5 was obtained, the flow in thetest section was not sufficientlyuniform for quantitative wind-tunnel testpurposes .  deviations from thedesign flow were traced to the presenceof a thick boundary layer whichdeveloped in the first step along theparallel walls .
  flow surveys have been made inthe second of several nozzles to beinvestigated in the langley 11-inchhypersonic tunnel .  the single-stage,two-dimensional nozzle was designedby the method of characteristics fora mach number of 7.08 without boundarylayercorrections .  the test results show thatreasonably uniform flow at an averagemach number of about 6.86 wasobtained in a central region of the streamat the test section .  this regionhad a cross section nearly 5 inchessquare and had a deviation fromuniform flow of less than 1 percent inmach number and 0.3 in flow angle .an increase in mach number ofabout 3 percent occurred during testruns of about 60 seconds durationbecause of distortions of the boundariesat the first minimum due tononuniform heating of the nozzle blocksduring the tests .
  measurements are presented for pressure gradientsinduced by a laminar boundary layer on aflat plate in air at a mach number of 9.6 and for thedrag of thin wings at a mach number of about 6.8and zero angle of attack .  the pressure measurementsat a mach number of 9.6 were made in thepresence of substantial heat transfer from theboundary layer to the plate surface .  the measuredpressure distribution on the surface of the plate waspredicted with good accuracy by a modification toinsulated-plate displacement theory which allowsfor the effect of the heat transfer and temperaturegradient along the surface on the boundary-layerdisplacement thickness .  the total drag of thin wings with square and deltaplan forms was measured at a nominal mach numberof 6.8 over a reasonably wide range of reynoldsnumbers .  the total drag was found to be greaterthan can be explained by adding a classical value oflaminar skin friction to the estimated pressure drag .the difference is, in general, explained by the increasein skin friction (20 to 40 percent) caused bythe boundary-layer-induced pressures .
  when a ramp or other compressionsurface is located in a locallysupersonic region behind a hypersonicbow shock wave, it generates asecondary shock wave .  the ramp flowdisturbance may be viewed as anembedded newtonian impact flow if theembedded shock layer is thin .  examinationof the applicability of newtonianflow theory to cones and wedgesin uniform streams suggests that thistheory can be expected to give auseful approximation to the surfacepressures .  a pressure equation based on thisconcept predicts a number ofinteresting things ..  first, pressurescan differ from simple newtoniantheory by factors of 1 5 to 3,. forexample, on flare stabilizers on bluntnosedbodies of revolution, pressuresare lower than newtonian and diminishwith increasing flight speed in thehypersonic speed range .  the calculatedpressures vary over the flare surfaceas a result of the nonuniformity ofits incident stream, and depend on theaxial location of the flare .  inthe case of a flap mounted on a largeangledblunt-nosed cone, the pressurecoefficients vary from 1 to 5 throughthe variable entropy layer .  apressure coefficient of 5 greater thanthe maximum possible in newtonianflow can occur because the compressionprocess is more efficient than asingle shock wave process .  on areasof the flap that protrude throughthe main bow wave, the pressurecoefficient should revert to the simplenewtonian value .  equations are developed for theinitial slopes of the normal-forceand pitching-moment curves of a flarestabilizer .  in the simplest casethese differ from conventional newtoniantheory by the ratio of localdynamic pressure to free-stream dynamicpressure .  this ratio takes valuesas low as 0.1 in some of the examples considered .
  charts are presented for the analysis of the stability undercompression of simply supported rectangular plates with one, two, three,and an infinite number of identical equally spaced longitudinalstiffeners that have zero torsional stiffness .
  charts are presented for the analysis of the stability underlongitudinal compression of simply supported rectangular plates withseveral equally spaced transverse stiffeners that have both torsionaland flexural rigidity .
  six circular cylinders stiffened longitudinally by closely spacedz-section stringers were loaded to failure in compression .  the resultsobtained are presented and compared with available theoretical resultsfor the buckling of orthotropic cylinders .  the results indicate thatthe large disparity that exists between theory and experiment forunstiffened compression cylinders may be significantly smaller forstiffened cylinders .
  although much work has been done to develop a theory forthe failure of shells by general instability, there is at present nosimple method by which the size of the frames may be determinedfor any given diameter, bending moment,.and frame spacing .such a method is needed in determining the optimum design forstiffened shells, to be used as a basis for weight analysis of fuselages,and other shell structures .  in an extension of the workdone for the rand corporation, a simple coefficient has beendetermined for this purpose .  since it appears that this methodmay also be useful in design calculations, a brief description ispresented below .
  the method of direct formulation of the stiffness matrix isextended to include the effects of nonuniform heating and largedeflections .  the purpose is to develop an analytical tool for thetreatment of actual structures .  in the solution of aeroelastic problems the relations betweenforces and deflections must be determined .  the usual stiffnessmatrix formulation of this relationship is limited to small temperaturechanges and small deflections .  for large temperaturechanges additional terms are required .  also the problem becomesgeometrically nonlinear when large deflections are involved.  to overcome the inherent difficulties of the nonlinearproblem for practical structures either an iterative or a step-bystepprocedure must be used .  the force-deformation relationsnecessary for this step-by-step or iterative approach are derivedfor an axially loaded member and for a plate element includingthe effects of thermal strains .
various extensions of the matrix force method for complex structureanalysis are presented and illustrated with the objective of expandingits range to handle the problems likely to be encountered in advancedvehicle wing design .  methods are covered in detail for (1) determiningthe change in flexibility that occurs when thermal stresses are present,and also how large these stresses must be to cause buckling, (2)including the non-linear effect of large deflections by an iterativeprocedure, and (3) analyzing a wing that is initially slightly camberedand warped with either or both of the aforementioned effects present .formulas are given for calculating the input matrix terms as are thematrix equations and supporting theoretical discussion .  an exampleillustrates the nature and magnitude of the effects being examined .
  part 1. from a general equation governingthe bending of thin elastic plates into certaintypes of surfaces of revolution are derivedexpressions for the behaviour of rectangular plateswith initial curvatures, subjected to purebending about one axis .  it is found that suchplates exhibit the type of instability characteristicof thin-walled structures which dependfor their stiffness on curvature .  curves aredrawn showing the deformation suffered bysuch plates, and an expression for the criticalbending moment at which instability occurs isobtained .  experimental results show satisfactoryagreement .  part 2. the analysis of part 1 is extended to dealwith the case of flat square or rectangularplates loaded by distributed bending momentsapplied to all four edges .  curves are drawnto describe their behaviour, and they are foundto exhibit the characteristic instabilitydisplayed by thin-walled curved structures .experimental verification is satisfactory .
an account is given of an investigation into the interaction between the boundary layer on a flat plate and a shock wave produced either externally,by a wedge in the supersonic mainstream, or from within theboundary layer, by a wedge held in contact with the plate . a wide range of free-stream mach numbers, boundary-layer reynolds numbers, and shock strengths has been covered, shock strength being defined as the ratioof the static pressure downstream of the shock to the static pressureupstream of it . variations in these parameters can have large effectson the interaction, and there are also large differences between caseswith externally generated shocks and cases where the shock is generatedfrom within the boundary layer . the investigation has thrown light onthe physical mechanisms involved . it is found that many of the majorfeatures of the interaction arise because the boundary layer separatesfrom the surface ahead of the shock wave . the conditions under whichseparation occurs and the behaviour of the separated boundary layer thus have important effects, in terms of which, for example, the differences between the interactions observed with laminar and with turbulentboundary layers may be explained .
  after analyzing a large class of boundary-layer velocityprofiles,the author discovered that the functions l(m) andh(m) for all such cases differ only slightly from each otherover the whole range of positive and negative pressure gradients.  here l, m and h are defined bybeing the velocitycomponentin the x direction and u the value of u at theedge of the boundary-layer and and the displacementand momentum thickness, respectively .  based on this discovery,an approximate method is proposed by constructingtwo universal curves l(m) and h(m) for all conceivableboundary-layer flows found in practice .  once these arechosen, karman's momentum-integral can be written in theform, v being the kinematic viscositycoefficient, and can be integrated numerically .  asexamples, both howarth's and hartree'stained is considered good for practical purposes .
  an approximate method for the calculation of the compressiblelaminar boundary layer with heat transfer andarbitrary pressure gradient, based on thwaites' correlationconcept, is presented .  the method results from the applicationof stewartson's transformation to prandtl's equations, whichyeilds a nonlinear set of two first-order differential equations .these equations are then expressed in terms of dimensionlessparameters related to the wall shear, the surface heat transfer,and the transformed free-stream velocity .  thwaites' conceptof the unique interdependence of these parameters is assumed .the evaluation of these quantities is then carried out by utilizingexact solutions recently obtained .  with the resulting relations, methods are derived for thecalculation of the two-dimensional and axially symmetriclaminar boundary layer with arbitrary free-stream velocitydistribution .  mach number, and surface temperature level .  the combined effect of heat transfer and pressure gradientis demonstrated by applying the method to calculate the characteristicsof the boundary layer on thin supersonic surfacesand in a highly cooled, convergent-divergent, axially symmetricrocket nozzle .
laminar separation in supersonic flow is investigated by an extension of stratford's method . it is assumed that separation is of the usualpractical type, taking place upstream of the shock wave or other agencyprovoking it . the results of the analysis agree well in most respectswith experiment .
the velocity fields of three-dimensionalviscous wakes are examined with theuse of the boundary-layer approximations,osoen's linearization of the convectiveterms, and the assumption of constantfluid properties .  transform methodsyield solutions for general types of initialconditions .  as an illustration, theaxial velocity distribution of a wake whoseinitial isovels (lines of constant velocity)are of elliptic shape and their decayto axial symmetry are demonstrated .both laminar and turbulent flows are considered .
the formula of stokes for the resistance experienced slowlymoving sphere has been employed in physical researches of fundamentalimportance, as a means of estimating the size of minute globules ofwater, and thence the number of globules contained in a cloud ofgiven mass .  consequently the conditions of its validity has been muchdiscussed both from the experimental and from the theoretical side .
  the authors discuss the solutions for the flow of a viscousincompressible fluid near the leading edge of a semi-infiniteflat plate without pressure gradient .  the oseen linearizationis employed which approximates the equations of motionand continuity bywhere are the coordinate directions, the correspondingvelocity components and the uniform free streamvelocity which is parallel to the plate .  defining a perturbationstream function bythe differential equationto be solved is with boundary conditionsfar from the plate andwhen y=0 and .  the authors discuss theproblem by applying the two-dimensional fourier transformand obtain an explicit solution for the velocity gradientat the plate which is in disagreementwith the result of the blasius solution .  from thisthe authors conclude that it would be more appropriate touse a velocity other than in the linearization of theequations of motion and suggest replacing by where .this choice does not affect the solution far fromthe plate but gives on the plate and incomparison with blasius solution indicates that c=0.35 .the solution of the modified oseen equation with this valueof c then seems acceptable as the approximate solution inthe region intermediate between the stokes flow and thefree stream .  on the basis of these considerations, the authorssuggest an iteration procedure for obtaining the exact solutionfor the above problem as well as a solution for the plateof finite length .
  viscous laminar axially-symmetricfree-mixing with small, moderate,and large swirl is investigated by aboundary layer type of analysis withintegral methods .  moderate and smallswirls are formally the same, differingonly in the order of their associatedradial pressure gradients .  neitherinduces significant axial pressure gradients,.consequently their effect on theaxial flow is negligible .  for moderate andsmall swirl an interesting featureis the swirl decay .  in both compressibleand incompressible flow, it isshown that jet swirl decays more rapidlythan wake swirl whereas both swirlsdecay more rapidly than the non-uniformityin axial velocity .  large swirlgenerates axial pressure gradients as wellas large radial pressure gradients,and therefore alters the streamwise flow .examples calculated for incompressibleflow, show that the wake islengthened by large swirl .  it is expectedthat this effect will be diminishedin the presence of higher free-streammach numbers which lead to decreaseddensities, due to decreased centrifugaleffects, decreased radial pressuregradients, and decreased axial pressuregradients .
recent experimental results have shown that themixing of heterogeneous gases having an initial velocityratio close to unity occurs faster than is predicted by classicaleddy-viscosity theory .  the theoretical analysis of two uniformstreams of different gases but of nearly equal velocity,performed with the usual assumptions for eddy viscosity andprandtl number equal to a constant, shows that mixing willtake place very slowly, i.e., at the rate corresponding tolaminar diffusion .  it has been suggested that the differencebetween analysis and experiment could be attributed to thepresence of a boundary layer in the experiments .  it is thepurpose of this note to show that the use of the classical eddyviscositylaw, admitting the existence of a boundary layer,is not sufficient to explain the rapid mixing that is observedphysically .  instead, it is shown that rapid mixing can beexplained on the basis of a different eddy-viscosity law, aswas suggested in ref. 1 .  these conclusions are obtainedthrough application of the analysis presented briefly below .
  the superaerodynamic nose drag of a body in a free-moleculeflow involves two parameters ..  the speed ratio s betweenordered and random molecular motions (modified mach number),and the temperature ratio between the solid surfaceand undisturbed gas .  simplifications of the drag formula areobtained at hypersonic as well as low-subsonic extremes .  tominimize the drag on a nose of specified length and base radius,the ordinary method of calculus of variation was found inadequate.  a generalized approach has, accordingly, been developed,and the specification of end conditions is discussed at length .  results of the present investigation indicate that in all casesan optimum nose requires a flat tip .  the optimum nose curvefor the hypersonic extreme does not depend on the temperatureratio, but that for the low-subsonic extreme varies in the followingmanner ..  for a hot body the curve is convex,. for a cold body,concave .  an optimum solution exists in a restricted range ofspecification only .  with prescribed tip and base radii the admissiblenose length is bounded below for the cases of hypersonicand low-subsonic hot body and bounded above for the case oflow-subsonic cold body .  a vanishing tip radius leads to an infinitelylong nose in the former and a vanishing nose in the lattercase .  optimum nose curves for several temperature ratios at the lowsubsonicextreme, as well as the one for hypersonic extreme, arepresented .  it is observed that at the low-subsonic extreme, with,the hot-body solution asymptotically approachesthe hypersonic solution--i.e., a slender conventional warheadwith a flat tip,. whereas with, the cold-body solutionasymptotically approaches the minimal-surface solution--i.e.,tip radius, a flat disc .
  the turbulent mixing of an axisymmetric jet of areactive gas is considered .  by assuming a convenientmodel for the compressible eddy viscosity,the momentum equation is reduced to a formamenable to approximate solution .  the resultingvelocity distribution in both incompressible andcompressible flows is in reasonable agreement withexperiment .  the usual assumptions with respectto chemical behavior, namely either frozen orequilibrium flow, and to unity lewis numbersand prandtl number are employed .  the theoreticalresults for chemical equilibrium are shownto be in reasonable agreement with experimental datafrom low speed hydrogen flames .  a numericalexample of interest in connection with a hypersonic,air breathing vehicle is carried out in detail .
an extension of the modified-oseen method of carrier, based on thelinearization of the viscous term of the von mises transformation,is presented .  the method is employed to determine the velocity fieldassociated with the laminar axisymmetric jet flow of a compressiblegas with an arbitrary but constant external flow .  the approximatesolution is shown to be in good agreement with the exact numericalcalculation of pai .in many boundary layer problems it is not possible to make theassumption of flow similarity .  the solution in these cases can beobtained either by laborious finite difference techniques or byresort to approximate solutions .  carrier and lewis (1), and morerecently carrier (2), have suggested a method of obtaining approximatesolutions to problems involving convection and diffusion .  thismethod, termed by carrier /the modified-oseen method/, overcomes anessential difficulty of integral methods, namely, the generation ofreasonable profiles .  it is well known that the integral method givesaccurate results only if the analytical profiles represent closelythe true profiles .  according to the modified-oseen method theconvective operator in the original partial differential equationis replaced by a linear one .  the resulting equation for theboundary layer problem is the heat conduction equation which can betreated by well-known techniques .it is the purpose of this paper to indicate a modification of thisprocedure and to demonstrate its simplicity and accuracy by treating theaxisymmetric laminar flow of a compressible gas with arbitrary butconstant external flow .  the modification is based on the use of thevon mises transformation with a subsequent linearization of the viscousterm, rather than the linearization of the convective term . pai'sproblem (3), originally treated by a finite difference technique,is considered to illustrate the effectiveness of this method .
  the mathematical background and typical applicationsin physics are presented for a recently tabulatedfunction .  because of its properties, the p function shouldprove to be a useful aid in the solution of certainproblems in applied mathematics involving surfaceintegrations in cylindrical coordinates .  a tabulation ofthe function in its normalized form is appended .particular attention is paid to the application of the pfunction to multiple scattering problems involvingcircular symmetry .
  a numerical method ofr obtaining the solution to the inverseproblem of the flow behind a given detached shock to any desiredaccuracy is presented .  the cases of zero and small incidenceare considered .  the combination of sets of such solutions satisfyingprescribed boundary conditions (body shapes) is described .particular attention is devoted to the analysis of the sonic andsubsonic region of the flow field .  convergence and stability ofthe stepwise integration from the shock in the elliptic region arediscussed .  numerical examples are also included .
the static pressure distributions on the surface of ablunted 7.5 degree-half-angle cone have recently been experimentallydetermined in the cal 48 inch hypersonic shock tunnel .  thisfacility and the associated instrumentation are described in detailin ref. 1 .  these tests covered a mach number range of 8 to 18at a reynolds number per foot of approximately 1 times 10 to the 5thpower., the models included one flat-faced cone and two hemisphericallyblunted cones .
paper reviews the possibilities and some of the main problems of threetypes of long-range vehicle, the ballistic, the glide, and the skiprocket . performance assessments are made on the basis of an ingenious,if debatable, conversion of the vehicle characteristics to the breguetformula . the problems of aerodynamic heating, aerodynamic loads andstability are briefly discussed, and other aspects of hypersonic flightfree molecule flow-dash are touched upon . the results on the wholefavor the glide vehicle for manned flight . the subsequent discussionon the paper includes references to multistaging and the use of highenergyfuels .
the importance of the lift to drag ratio is wellknown to all aircraft designers since it gives, to agreat extent, the aerodynamic efficiency of the airplane .aerodynamic efficiency, however, is only onecomponent of the grand compromise that a completedairplane represents .  at subsonic speeds, lift-dragratios of well over 200 have been measured in windtunnels on airfoil sections., but few powered aircrafthave attained (lift to drag ratio) value of 20 .  it is invariably truethat the requirements of stability and control, structure,and flight operation all contribute to reducing thedesign (lift to drag ratio) considerably below those exotic valueswhich can be predicted from unrestricted aerodynamictheory .  if, however, a certain range or operatingefficiency is required, there is most certainly a minimumif we examine the range equation we see that range isproportional to the lift-drag ratio, the thermopropulsiveefficiency, and the logarithm of the initial to finalweight ratio .  the appearance of the lift-drag ratio as alinear factor in the range equation indicates that everyattempt should be made to increase (lift to drag ratio)., however,the search for higher (lift to drag ratio) may lead to strangeand unorthodox configurations .  most frequently, suchconfigurations are ruled out by the adverse effects oftheir geometry on the weight ratios .  in the presentpaper, we will deal with the maximum lift-drag ratioproblem for conventional configurations having a wingand a body in close proximity to each other .  no attemptwill be made to select a particular configurationas being the best .  however, the promising directionto go from the aerodynamic view will be stressed withthe understanding that the other factors may outweightthe aerodynamics .
  the effect of mach number variationfrom 1.8 to 7.4 on boundary-layertransition was investigated on a slenderfin-stabilized ogive-cylinderbody in free flight at a constant lengthreynolds number of 13.8 million .the wall to free-stream temperature ratiowas constant at a value of 1.0below mach number 4.5 and at a value ofof the test showed that increasing machnumber had a very favorable effectof increasing the extent of the laminarboundary layer for a given surfaceroughness .  the transition data, whenplotted as a function of a factorindicative of heat transfer, showed thatheat transfer was possibly responsiblefor a good deal of the increase intransition reynolds number withmach number .  transition was found to occurfarther forward on the sheltered sideof the body than on the windward sidefor angles of attack as low as 0.4and for all mach numbers .  the pressurerise along sheltered-side streamlineswas examined and it was foundthat the pressure-rise coefficientat the transition point, showed novariation with mach number .  data fromother sources for different testconditions, when reduced to values ofpressure-rise coefficient, were alsofound to correlate well with that ofthe present investigation with theexception of data at low subsonic machnumbers .  these present results alsoshow that mach number, surface roughness,pressure rise, and length reynoldsnumber all affected boundary-layertransition in the region of theoreticalinfinite laminar stability tosmall two-dimensional disturbances ascalculated for a flat plate withzero pressure gradient .
  the solution of the equations of the laminarboundary layer has been carried out for the pressuredistribution for an elliptic cylinder of axial ratio 2.96 ..  1 withits major axis in the direction of the incident stream .the solution has been obtained by the method of hartree andwomersley .  in applying this method the derivativesparallel to the boundary are replaced by finite differences, sothat the partial differential equation of the boundarylayer is replaced by an ordinary equation relating the velocitydistribution through the boundary layer at one sectionto that at another, at an interval upstream .  by two independentintegrations covering the same range by finite intervalsof different sizes, it is possible to estimate the errorsinvolved in replacing the derivatives by finite differences,and so to correct for these errors .  the process of solution requires the values of the pressuregradient along the solid boundary, and there is a certaintolerance in the derivation of the pressure gradient distributionfrom a limited number of observed values of pressure .an analysis of schubauer's pressure distribution is outlined, andthe results were used for the main solution calculated .it is found that the solution, for the distribution of pressure gradientso derived, does not give separation of the boundarylayer from the solid boundary, whereas the actual flow does separate .  it is found that the calculated solution is very sensitive tothe pressure distribution, and a comparatively smallmodification of the pressure distribution gives a solution whichdoes indicate separation close to the point at whichseparation is observed to occur .  the solution with this pressuredistribution also gives very good agreement with theobserved velocity distribution through the boundary layer atpoints upstream from separation .
  the paper presents a mathematical discussion of thelaminar boundary layer, which was developed with a viewof facilitating the investigation of those boundary layersin particular for which the phenomenon of separationoccurs .  the treatment starts with a slight modification ofthe form of the boundary layer equation first published byvon mises .  two approximate solutions of this equationare found, one of which is exact at the outer edge of theboundary layer while the other is exact at the wall .  thefinal solution is obtained by joining these two solutionsat the inflection points of the velocity profiles .  the finalsolution is given in terms of a series of universal functionsfor a fairly broad class of potential velocity distributionsoutside of the boundary layer .  detailed calculations ofthe boundary layer characteristics are worked out for thecase in which the potential velocity is a linear function ofthe distance from the upstream stagnation point .  finallythe complete separation point characteristics are determinedfor the boundary layer associated with a potentialvelocity distribution made up of two linear functions ofthe distance from the stagnation point .  it appears thatextensions of the detailed calculations to more complexpotential flows can be fairly easily carried out by usingthe explicit formulae given in the paper .
the author, in conjunction with th. von karman,has recently given a new method of approximateintegration of the prandtl boundary layer equations,which was developed in order to treat cases in whichseparation of a laminar boundary layer might be expected.  the method was developed because some doubtwas felt as to the accuracy with which the well-knownpohlhausen analysis would describe conditions in theneighborhood of such a separation point .  numericalcalculations were carried out for certain cases involvingtheoretical simplifications, and very considerable discrepancieswere found between the results of the newand pohlhausen methods .  the method was also usedin developing a theory for the maximum lift coefficientof certain classes of airfoils .  this theory gave satisfactoryagreement with experiment but no direct experimentalcheck on the boundary layer analysis itself hasbeen given up to the present .
  the speed distribution in a laminar boundary layer onthe surface of an elliptic cylinder, of major and minoraxes 11.78 and 3.98 inches, respectively, has been determinedby means of a hot-wire anemometer .  the directionof the impinging air stream was parallel to the major axis .special attention was given to the speed distribution inthe region of separation and to the exact location of thepoint of separation .  an approximate method, developedby k. pohlhausen for computing the speed distribution,the thickness of the layer, and the point of separation, isdescribed in detail,. and speed-distribution curves calculatedby this method are presented for comparison withexperiment .  good agreement is obtained along the forwardpart of the cylinder, but pohlhausen's method failsshortly before the separation point is reached and consequentlycannot be used to locate this point .  the work was carried out at the national bureau ofstandards with the cooperation and financial assistanceof the national advisory committee for aeronautics .
  a survey of integral methods in laminar-boundary-layeranalysis is first given .  a simple and sufficiently accuratemethod for practical purposes of calculating the propertieslayer in an axial pressure gradient with heat transfer at thewall is then presented .  for flow over a flat plate, the methodis applicable for an arbitrarily prescribed distribution oftemperature along the surface and for any given constantprandtl number close to unity .  for flow in a pressure gradient,the method is based on a prandtl number of unity and a uniformwall temperature .  a simple and accurate method of determiningthe separation point in a compressible flow with an adversepressure gradient over a surface at a given uniform wall temperatureis developed .  the analysis is based on an extension ofthe karman-pohlhausen method to the momentum and thermalenergy equations in conjunction with fourth- and especiallyhigher degree velocity and stagnation-enthalpy profiles .  fromthe equations derived here, conclusions regarding the effect ofpressure gradient, mach number, and wall temperature on theboundary-layer characteristics are derived and illustrated .  inparticular the effects on skin-friction, heat-transfer coefficient,separation point in an adverse pressure gradient, and stabilityof the laminar boundary layer are analyzed .
  reasons for investigation.--for an efficient designof spar with thin sheet web it is important to knowthe load which will just cause the web to buckle .  as stiffenersdivide the web into panels, it is required to find thebuckling stress of rectangular panels bounded on two sides byspar flanges and on the other two sides by stiffeners .boundary conditions which represent closely this type of edgefixing are clamping (along the flanges) and simple supportcritical shear stress for a square panel held in this way .  conclusions and further development.--it is found that thevalue of the critical shear stress is almost midway betweenits values when all four edges are clamped and all four edgesare simply supported .  the method of solution developed in this report is of verygeneral application, and can be used to investigate thestability of rectangular panels when the loading is any combinationof shear and compression or tension, and the edgesare clamped or simply supported, and not necessarily all clampedor all simply supported .  by an easy extension themethod of solution can also be used to find the periods of transversevibration of rectangular panels for the same typesof loading and edge fixing .
  it is advantageous in automaticcomputers to employ methods of integrationwhich do not require preceding function valuesto be known .  from a general theory given bykutta, one such process is chosen giving fourthorderaccuracy and requiring the minimumnumber of storage registers .  it is developed intoa form which gives the highest attainableaccuracy and can be carried out by comparativelyfew instructions .  the errors are studied anda simple example is given .
  this article proposes a new method for solving the problemof the detached shock wave .  if the shock wave is assumedknown, a cauchy problem for a system of partial differentialequations arises .  this has been solved by several authorsin the region where the system is elliptic (near the peak ofthe shock wave) .  considering the plane stationary case, theauthor seeks an analytic continuation of the propagationfunction (x,y) in the complex plane y = y1 + y2, x real .in the plane (x, y2) the propagation function satisfies ahyperbolic equation (near the peak of the shock wave) .  anew cauchy problem is solved and the solution of the originalproblem obtained by analytic continuation .  a numericalexample is treated with many details .
  a method is described for calculating examples of hypersonicflow with a detached bow shock wave past a bluff axially symmetricbody .  the form of the shock wave is assumed, and theanalysis is based on a cauchy problem for the stream functionin the subsonic region, where the motion is governed by a partialdifferential equation of elliptic type .  through analytic continuationinto the complex domain, the cauchy problem is reformulatedin such a manner that it becomes properly set in thesubsonic region .  this leads to a stable scheme for computationof the flow by finite differences .  numerical examples at freestreammach number 5.8 are presented in which the flow is determinedthroughout the subsonic region, and, in particular, thedetachment distance, the location of the sonic line, and the pressuredistribution along the body are calculated .  these results arein excellent agreement with experimental data obtained at thecalifornia institute of technology .
a study is made of when and how a shock wave and continuum-type flowfield develop in the nose region of a highly cooled blunt body re-enteringthe atmosphere at hypersonic speed and in a free molecular flowregime . the various types of flow regimes encountered down to low altitudeconditions are delineated, and the nature of the flow field andbehavior of some of the aerodynamic characteristics are discussed . itis shown that for a highly cooled body, free molecule flow conditionsoccur at a higher altitude than previously indicated . based on availableevidence, it is suggested that kinetic theory solutions, which areessentially modified free molecule results, along with the navier-stokes equations with no surface slip, serve to define all of the flow regimes except for a narrow transitional layer regime which has a height ofless than one factor of 10 in free stream density change . it is alsosuggested that the appearance of a definable shock wave occurs veryrapidly in terms of density change near the beginning of the transitionallayer regime, and that its location, as in continuum flow, isgoverned principally by the body geometry, whereas its thickness isdetermined by a local mean free path .
  this report describes an energy method forthe exact solution of problems concerning the smalldisplacements, stability or vibration of a flat rectangular panelwhen the edges are either clamped or simply supported .the influence of stiffeners which are parallel to one pair of edges,and situated in pairs on opposite sides of the panelso that the neutral axis of each stiffener pair lies in the middlesurface of the panel, is taken into account .  the methodis not only applicable to isotropic panels but also to aeolotropicpanels when the material of the panel has two directionsof elastic symmetry parallel to the edges .  the final solution of the problems depends on an infinite set oflinear equations for small displacement problems or onan infinite determinantal equation for stability and vibrationproblems .  the important feature of the analysis given isthat it enables a direct approach to be made to these equationsin any particular problem .  it is not in general possibleto obtain a direct solution of the final equations and it isnecessary to approximate and consider a finite set of linearequations or a finite determinantal equation derived from themore important terms in the analytical expression for thetransverse displacement of the panel .  here, physical intuitionand, if available, experimental data serve as a guide andthe accuracy of the final results so obtained is gauged by therate of convergence with the increase in the number ofterms considered .  the general method of solution is applied first to the freevibration of a square panel when all the edges are clamped,and second to the buckling of a square panel under shear whenthree edges are clamped and one edge is simply supported .
in order to determine the temperature distribution over abody moving through the atmosphere, a knowledge of thelocal heat-transfer coefficients is required .  for slender sharpnosedbodies, the heat-transfer coefficients are frequently approximatedby using the comparable flat-plate values .  however,for blunt-nosed bodies, flat-plate solutions are not applicablenear the forward stagnation point .  since the greatest rateof heat transfer may occur at the forward stagnation point, itsvalue should be investigated .  in this note a theoretical solutionis given for the heat transfer near the forward stagnation point ofa body of revolution assuming laminar, incompressible, low-speedflow .  the comparable solution for two-dimensional flow hasbeen given by squire .  in the case of a blunt-nosed body movingwith supersonic velocity, the flow behind the central portion ofthe bow wave is subsonic, and it is possible that a low-speed solution,using as /free-stream/ conditions those behind the centerof the bow wave, will apply near the stagnation point .
in hypersonic, low reynolds number flow around a blunt body,the boundary-layer thickness approaches the shock-layerthickness (shock standoff distance) within the region of continuumflow .  in this instance, the customary boundary-layerapproximations no longer apply .  hoshizaki and probsteinhave obtained solutions to the incompressible navier-stokesequations in the stagnation region of a blunt body in this hypersoniclow reynolds number flow .  the results indicate that heattransferrates are substantially higher than those predicted by incompressibleboundary-layer theory .  probstein indicated thatthe actual heat-transfer rates would be correspondingly higherthan the predictions of fay and riddell .  these findings are ofparticular importance in the atmospheric entry phase of recoverablesatellites .
  presents absolute heat-transfer measurements, using resistancethermometer, for hemisphere-cylinder at mach numbers 9.2 to 11.2 .results show vorticity-interaction and viscous-layer effects increaseheat transfer above values predicted by boundary-layertheory .  data are correlated using cheng's reynolds-number-dependentparameter .  investigation covers vorticity-interaction toincipient-merged-layer regimes (free-stream unit reynolds numbers
  the paper presents a solution to the buckling of infinitely longplates clamped along the edges, together with an extension of thesolution obtained by stein and fralich for the case when the edges aresimply-supported .  it is shown that, as a consequence of increasing theedge support from that of a simple support to one in which bothdeflection and rotation are prevented, the rigidity which anintermediate transverse stiffener must possess in order to support theplate effectively is much reduced .  agreement between the theoreticalrelationships and existing experimental data is good .
  a theoretical solution is given for the critical shear stress ofan infinitely long, simply supported, flat plate with identical, equallyspaced, transverse stiffeners of zero torsional stiffness .  results areobtained by means of the lagrangian multiplier method and are presentedin the form of design charts .  experimental results are included andare found to be in good agreement with the theoretical results .
  the author first discusses the problem of a plane, simplysupported rectangular plate loaded by shearing forces inthe plane of the plate on all four edges .  there are twostiffeners attached one third and two thirds of the wayalong the plate .  the critical load is calculated for variousstiffener rigidities .  also, the rigidity necessary to keepthe stiffeners straight when the plate buckles is found .this stiffener rigidity is found to be slightly larger thanthat necessary for a plate with one stiffener and the samepanel dimensions as the plate with two stiffeners .  the second problem discussed by the author is that of aplane, simply supported rectangular plate loaded by uniformlydistributed edge shearing forces in the plane of theplate and linearly distributed tension and compression inthe plane of the plate at the ends .  the end forces varyfrom tension, at one corner to, at the other corner,so that their resultant is a bending moment .  the presenceof the edge shearing forces is found to diminish thecritical bending stress in this case .  calculations are madefor various magnitudes of bending and shearing forces forplates of various proportions .
  this paper presents an analysis of buckling of simplysupported rectangular plates reinforced by any number oftransverse stiffeners and subjected to shearing forces uniformlydistributed along the edges .  two cases areconsidered ..  (a) the case of a plate with a finite length,.ing stresses in both cases are expressed in similar forms,that is, in equation (13), andk in equation (24), respectively .  designcurves are drawn as shown in figs. 2,3, and 5 .
  this report is an extension of previous theoreticalinvestigations of the elastic buckling in shear of flatplates reinforced by transverse stiffeners . the plates are treatedas infinitely long and simply-supported along the longsides . stiffeners are spaced at regular intervals, dividing the plateinto a number of panels of uniform size . the effectob bending and torsional stiffnesses of the stiffener upon the bucklingshear stress is calculated for the complete rangeof stiffnesses, for panels with ratios of width to stiffener spacing ofgraphical forms .
